---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Astrazeneca 2003

Chief Executive’s message

Our reputation is built on the trust and confidence of all our stakeholders and is one of AstraZeneca’s most valuable assets. Along with our commitment to competitiveness and performance, we will continue to be led by our core values to achieve sustainable success.
Stakeholder expectations are constantly evolving and we continuously monitor our internal and external environment for issues relating to our business that affect or concern society today. We use a formal risk assessment process to identify both the opportunities and the challenges that these issues present, and to plan the actions needed to ensure our response is appropriate and consistent. Our current Priority Action Plan is shown on page 4. Corporate responsibility (CR) is not an optional extra ? it must be integral to all that we do. Our strategy to include considerations of corporate responsibility across all our activities is beginning to take effect. In particular, relevant aspects are being increasingly integrated into our risk assessments, scenario planning, training, purchasing practices and market access strategy. In 2003, we made some good progress, but recognise that there is more work to do to ensure that a sense of corporate responsibility is consistently embedded throughout the Group and actively interpreted and managed at a local level.
Because corporate responsibility spans a wide range of issues, they cannot all be covered in this brief introduction. However, I will highlight under each of our core values some areas of progress and some where further work is needed. More information is available in this Summary Report and on our website, astrazeneca.com.

Respect for the individual and diversity
We value the different backgrounds and skills that our global workforce brings to our business and are committed to ensuring that diversity is appropriately supported in the workplace ? at all levels. At the end of 2003, we had around 28 diversity programmes in place within the Group and a number of awareness
raising initiatives took place during the year, mainly within R&D and our US business. Further work is needed to ensure that the benefits of diversity are fully recognised across the Group.

Openness, honesty, trust and support for each other
Our Code of Conduct has been revised and re-published during the year and a formal, confidential helpline procedure is now in place for employees wishing to raise concerns on integrity issues or
report inappropriate behaviour. We also concentrated on reviewing and refining our corporate governance controls and reporting procedures to ensure that we are meeting new laws and regulatory requirements. This includes the ability
to meet the appropriate executive certification requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation in the US and the changes introduced in 2003 by the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the UK Financial Reporting Council.

Integrity and high ethical standards 
During the year, we added sales and marketing practices to the Priority Action Plan to ensure they continue to get the appropriate high level of attention and that we develop ways of improving our global reporting in this area. The settlement of the Zoladex investigation
in the US (see page 13) strengthened our commitment to deliver high standards of ethical behaviour in the marketing of our medicines worldwide.

Leadership by example at all levels 
Good corporate responsibility depends on the right level of commitment from
all employees, led by the AstraZeneca Board, who approve the strategic direction, and our Senior Executive Team and management, who are accountable for the development and implementation all employees, led by the AstraZeneca Board, who approve the strategic direction, and our Senior Executive Team and management, who are accountable for the development and implementation of appropriate programmes in their areas of responsibility. An important step in 2003 was the inclusion in our annual compliance report by senior management to the AstraZeneca Board (the ‘letter of assurance’) of a requirement to develop local CR implementation plans.

Our business is focused on the discovery and development of life-saving and
life-enhancing medicines. Historically, the markets for these therapies have been in developed countries but as the economies of developing countries grow, new markets for our prescription medicines emerge. Our strategy for expansion in these emerging markets is designed to ensure that through timely investment, we are well placed to meet the needs of patients in these countries. As part of this, we are committed to playing a role in targeting improved treatment of the highest priority diseases. In June 2003, we opened
our new state of the art laboratories in Bangalore, India. Work there is dedicated to finding the first new treatment in 40 years for tuberculosis, one of the world’s greatest causes of death from infectious disease. AstraZeneca will make any treatment invented in these laboratories available for clinical development and supply to the world’s poorest countries at low prices in partnership with governments, healthcare systems, international agencies and others ? all of whom have a part to play in bringing essential medicines to the patients who need them.

Good corporate responsibility enhances the benefits of our medicines, the quality of our financial performance and the significance of our contributions to our local communities. I am committed to the high standards necessary for our continued business success and for maintaining the value of our contribution
to society.

Sir Tom McKillop
Chief Executive


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Astrazeneca 2004

Chief Executive’s message

At AstraZeneca, we consider the value of our products to patients and to society to
be at the core of our corporate responsibility (CR) effort. We make our unique contribution through successful research and development of new medicines. Innovation drives progress
in society and in the case of pharmaceuticals, innovative research not only brings benefits for patients, improving health and quality
of life, it also creates wealth and contributes to the economic development of the communities we serve.

We see our core values as central to achieving sustainable success through innovation.
We know that we must act appropriately and consistently, wherever we operate. Our reputation and continued success depend on it.

Adding value through innovation
The path to a new medicine is long, complex and costly. It may take over ten years of development and only one in ten projects entering development will make it to market. Typically, about $1 billion is invested in research and development before the first dollar of sales is realised. The pharmaceutical industry is responsible for the vast majority
of new medicines ? no one else has the combination of skills, experience and resources to do all that is needed to deliver real pharmaceutical advances.

Each of AstraZeneca’s R&D projects has clear targets and must demonstrate benefit to patients, otherwise it is stopped. Sometimes the benefits are incremental
and sometimes they can be described as breakthroughs. Clearly, fundamental breakthroughs are exciting, but they are exceedingly rare. Incremental innovation is important too because the first product in a class is almost never the best. Refinement brings quality, reliability and additional benefits. Also, choice is good for patients, who respond differently to different medicines, and for competition,
helping to add value for healthcare systems. Very often, the full benefit of a medicine only becomes apparent after long usage and extensive clinical trials ? for example our
own product, Nolvadex, launched to treat breast cancer is now used to help prevent the disease.

The inequality of access to healthcare remains one of the biggest challenges
the world faces today. The pharmaceutical industry has a significant role to play, but responsibility also rests with governments and other organisations to provide appropriate infrastructures that support good public
health and the reliable provision of medicines
and other aspects of healthcare to those
in need. AstraZeneca is committed to playing its part (and you can read more about this
on page 18), but I believe that real progress will depend on the acceptance of a shared responsibility and commitment.

Delivering our core values
In practice, “walking the talk” of our core values means ensuring that CR is consistently embedded throughout the organisation and actively interpreted and managed at a local level. For a company of AstraZeneca’s size, this is a significant task. We are making progress but there is still work to do. An important step forward has been the creation of National CR Committees in the US, the UK and Sweden, where more than 60% of our employees are located. National CR action plans, including local priorities and objectives, are now in place in these three cornerstones
of our global presence.

Another significant move was our decision in 2004 to formally integrate CR into the personal targets and performance reviews of all employees, including AstraZeneca’s Senior Executive Team and senior management. This will further support the integration of CR considerations into business strategy development and day-to-day decision-making, actions and behaviours.

We have also begun to integrate CR into our leadership development programmes and during the year, we launched an intranet site dedicated to providing managers with the tools and guidance they need to put CR into practice at a local level.

I was pleased to see that 80% of our people took time to respond to our third two-yearly global employee survey, which took place
in 2004 and the results of which helped
us to identify areas for further improvement. We are working to develop improvement plans that address the areas highlighted
for attention by the survey, which included organisational efficiency, strengthening leadership capabilities and clarity around performance expectations.

Our biggest employee safety issue is driving-related accidents ? a particular problem with so many sales representatives driving extensively on business. Despite our increased focus in this area, we are currently showing little improvement in our driver safety record. I am committed to doing better. Alongside the other work being done in this area and to further promote best practice, during 2004 I gave a special Chief Executive’s award to AstraZeneca in the Czech Republic for the most effective driver safety initiative implemented in the previous year. Examples of best practice such as theirs continue to be shared within the Company to help stimulate further improvement in performance.

Following the devastating tsunami in December 2004, our first priority was to account for our employees working in the region and those visiting on holiday. I am sad to report that, to date, three of our employees are still missing. Our deepest sympathies and condolences
go to their families and friends and to all those affected by this tragic event. AstraZeneca responded immediately to the disaster with cash donations totalling $600,000 and medicines. For the longer term, we have established a fund of a further $1.5 million to provide ongoing support to help those stricken by the disaster rebuild their lives and their communities.

CR is an evolving landscape. We use stakeholder dialogue, external benchmarking and internal risk assessment to make sure we are staying in tune with the issues relating to our business that affect or concern society. During the year, we added clinical trials and pharmaceuticals in the environment to our Global CR Priority Action Plan, and we introduced new key performance indicators for marketing and sales practices and animal welfare, which provide the platform for further strengthening of our global monitoring systems in these areas.

We are committed to transparent, balanced reporting of our CR performance and this year, we have taken a further step with the introduction of a pilot scheme to provide independent assurance of this CR Summary Report and the processes that underpin it. You can read the results of this on page 20.

The pharmaceutical industry faces many challenges to its reputation ? some justified, some less so. I am convinced that the effective implementation of corporate responsibility
and a wider appreciation of the health and economic benefits we bring to patients and society will enable AstraZeneca to promote and safeguard its reputation in an increasingly
critical climate of public opinion.

Sir Tom McKillop
Chief Executive


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information

‘We are committed to ensuring that our actions reflect our core values. Our reputation and our continued success depend on it.’


AstraZeneca Core Values
> Integrity and high ethical standards
> Respect for the individual and diversity
> Openness, honesty, trust and support
for each other
> Leadership by example at all levels

AstraZeneca Group CR Policy
Through the innovation of new medicines,
AstraZeneca improves human health and
enhances people’s lives. Our activities impact
not just on the patients we serve and our
investors, but also on our employees and
on society as a whole.
Our reputation and continued long term
success depend on our ability to integrate
successfully our financial obligations with
our social and environmental responsibilities.
In so doing, we will maintain the trust and
confidence of our stakeholders and continue
to be a company that is welcomed by society
and for which our employees are proud to work.
AstraZeneca aims to set, promote and maintain
high standards of corporate responsibility
worldwide, in line with our core values and
consistent with our publicly declared code
of conduct, which will ensure that:
> Patient benefit and safety continue to be
the core priority
> Safety, health and environmental issues
remain a fundamental company
consideration
> The individuality, diverse talent and creative
potential that every employee brings to the
business are fully valued and respected
> We maintain high ethical standards in our
research and development of new medicines
> We maintain high ethical standards of
marketing and sales practices in all countries
of operation
> We make a positive contribution to the
communities in which we operate
> As a minimum, we meet national and
international regulations
> Our CR commitments are expanded
by encouraging suppliers to embrace
standards similar to our own
> New and emerging issues relating to CR
are dealt with appropriately and effectively
We will be transparent in our communications
about the work we are doing to meet these
commitments and drive continuous
improvement in our CR performance.
Revised and approved by the AstraZeneca
Board in January 2005.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Astrazeneca 2005

Making a difference in the lives of patients is
the glue that holds us together wherever we are located. And it is through the successful introduction of medicines which help in the fight against disease that we reward our shareholders, pension funds and other institutional investors as well as supporting the economic development
of the communities around us.

We believe that what we do is important. We also believe that how we do it is just as important. Only by working responsibly can we earn the trust and confidence that makes such a vital contribution to our corporate reputation and
our licence to do business from stakeholders and wider society.

AstraZeneca operates in an increasingly challenging business environment, and ours
is a high performance culture that requires all of us in the Company to make our best contribution to business success. We are determined that our corporate responsibility is consistently given appropriate consideration and that we continue to live up to our core values through thick
and thin. Key to this is ensuring that everyone understands what is expected of them and
that they are accountable for their own actions. We are making progress in building that understanding and driving the integration of
CR considerations into everyday thinking, at all levels. As part of this, all employees are now required to have, as a minimum, a performance objective that reflects the need to ensure compliance with relevant AstraZeneca
CR-related policies as part of their core role.

Each quarter we ask a random sample of employees for their views on a range of business practices including our approach to corporate responsibility. During 2005, the results of these pulse surveys, which are discussed at the regular meetings of our Global CR Committee, showed a consistently good understanding
of CR among employees and strong familiarity with the Company’s Code of Conduct. They also provided constructive suggestions for improving leadership roles in the continued delivery of our CR agenda.

Effective leadership is critical to delivery of our CR objectives and we continue to support our leaders with learning opportunities and tools for communicating with their teams to build awareness and understanding of what CR means in practice. During 2005, some 245 of our top managers were involved in leadership
development programmes that included CR.

We have national CR committees and
management frameworks in place in the US, the UK and Sweden, where more than 60% of our employees are located. Elsewhere in the world, CR continues to be integrated into leadership team agendas and interpreted at
a local level.

We have more work to do to improve how we gather information about our CR-related activities across the organisation and during the year, we began the process of developing
a common platform for formally capturing local information at a global level.

In today’s demanding world, it is important to me that we continue to provide a healthy, safe and energising work environment for our people and I am pleased to report that we are
widely recognised as a good employer with high standards of employment practice.

The Board, in its annual review of safety, health and environmental issues, specifically reviewed progress on targets set in previous years as well as agreeing challenging new targets for the next five years. Success in exceeding our health and wellbeing targets, and achieving most of our environmental targets set in 2002, was tempered by the disappointment of our failure to meet
our targeted reduction in the rate of accidents with serious injury. However, we did achieve
a substantial reduction of 26% and we are now building on our existing safety programmes to support future improvement in this area.

We know that establishing targets is in itself not sufficient to deliver sustained performance improvements. Only through the continued identification of appropriate actions and the clear allocation of management responsibilities for their delivery can such improvements
be achieved. This Report describes our performance against targets set in earlier years; introduces new targets and details
the key performance indicators against which we measure our progress.

Approximately one third of AstraZeneca’s employees worldwide are engaged in the promotion and detailing of information on our medicines to doctors and specialists. Their work is governed by our own Code of Sales and Marketing Practice as well as relevant external national and international codes.
We are committed to driving high standards
in these activities, and have introduced a new key performance indicator by which to measure our progress ? namely, the number of confirmed cases where AstraZeneca has been ruled to have breached external regulations or codes of sales and marketing practice. Any breach is treated seriously and appropriate actions are taken by management to prevent repetition. By publishing
the number of confirmed breaches, we have made
public a global benchmark against which we can be judged over time on our commitment
to responsible sales and marketing practice.

Sales and marketing practice is one of the areas in which the pharmaceutical industry is increasingly under public scrutiny. Other
aspects of our business that affect or concern society today include the safety of medicines, access to healthcare and pre-clinical and
clinical research practices. In this year’s Report, we have set out to communicate more information about our approach in these areas, in line with our commitment to transparency and openness, and with a view to building a better understanding of what is required to get life changing medicines to patients that also add value for shareholders and wider society.

For the second year running, we have sought independent assurance of the information contained in the Report. This year, the process was extended to include visits to our operations in the US and India, to enable the external assurance team to assess the validity of
our corporate statements about a global commitment to CR. You can read their assurance statement on page 36.

AstraZeneca is once again listed in the 2006
Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and
we continue to receive widespread recognition in the communities in which we operate for our responsible approach to business. What perhaps is not so well recognised is the benefits that our medicines and our presence bring to patients and wider society. I am determined that they should be, so that the full value of AstraZeneca’s contribution is better understood by our
stakeholders and those who influence them ?

DAVID R BRENNAN
Chief Executive Officer
February 2006

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

“Only by working responsibly can we earn
the trust and confidence that makes such
a vital contribution to our corporate
reputation and our licence to do business
from stakeholders and wider society.”

OUR CORE VALUES:
>INTEGRITY AND HIGH ETHICAL STANDARDS
>RESPECT FOR THE INDIVIDUAL AND DIVERSITY
>OPENNESS,HONESTY,TRUST AND SUPPORT FOR EACH OTHER
>LEADERSHIP BY EXAMPLE AT ALL LEVELS

The 65,000 employees of
AstraZeneca are dedicated to
providing medicines that improve
health and quality of life worldwide.
OUR CORE

GROUP CR POLICY
Through the innovation of new medicines, AstraZeneca improves human health and enhances people’s lives. Our activities affect not just the patients we serve and our investors, but also our employees and society as a whole.

Our reputation and continued long term success depend on our ability to integrate successfully our financial obligations with our social and environmental responsibilities. In so doing, we will maintain the trust and confidence of our stakeholders and continue to be a company that is welcomed by society and for which our employees are proud to work.

AstraZeneca aims to set, promote and maintain high standards of corporate responsibility worldwide, in line with our
core values and consistent with our publicly declared codes of conduct, which will ensure that:

> Patient benefit and safety continue to be the core priority.

> Safety, health and environmental issues remain a fundamental Company consideration.

> The individuality, diverse talent and creative potential that every employee brings to the business are fully valued and respected.

> We maintain high ethical standards in our research and development of new medicines.

> We maintain high ethical standards of sales and marketing practices in all countries of operation.

> We make a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate.

> As a minimum, we meet national and international regulations.

> Our CR commitments are expanded
by encouraging our suppliers to embrace standards similar to our own.

> New and emerging issues relating to CR
are dealt with appropriately and effectively.

We will be transparent in our communications  about the work we are doing to meet these commitments and drive continuous improvement in our CR performance.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Astrazeneca 2006

MESSAGE FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

AstraZeneca’s business strategy centres on building our capabilities in the new science and technologies that will help us develop better, safer medicines; on maximising the therapeutic and economic value of all our medicines to deliver their full benefit for patients and society, and on working closely with all our stakeholders to gain the insight
we need to continue to make a valued contribution to patients and healthcare. Throughout all of these activities, maintaining our fundamental commitment to corporate responsibility (CR) remains a top priority.

As Chief Executive Officer, I am accountable, together with senior leaders in the organisation, for leading the delivery of our business goals, and for maintaining the trust of our stakeholders and wider society that
is so vital to our continued success.

Our Business Performance Management (BPM) framework sets financial and non- financial targets, including CR, in line with our strategic objectives in four core areas:
Patients, Products, People and Performance. Progress in each of these four areas is reviewed quarterly by the AstraZeneca Board and Senior Executive Team (SET).

TAKING OWNERSHIP
We know that targets alone cannot deliver improved performance. Actions must be identified and accountability assigned to people who can ensure that these actions are implemented. Led by the SET, each AstraZeneca function and location is responsible for setting its own CR targets, based on the global framework but relevant to their local issues and priorities. And we continue to work to ensure that
all of our people are clear about our CR commitment; that they fully understand what it means for them and that they are empowered to integrate CR considerations
into their everyday business decision-making.

GAINING INSIGHT
Understanding the needs of our stakeholders is essential for effective leadership of our business. We have increased our emphasis on stakeholder dialogue and are making it a more permanent feature of how we operate
in AstraZeneca. Stakeholder engagement is also important in identifying our CR priorities and, during 2006, we published internally a new guideline on how to engage stakeholders
in CR-specific dialogues as an important step
in local CR priority action planning. You can read more about this on page 26.

LISTENING TO OUR PEOPLE
The views of our employees are very important to us and the results of this year’s global employee survey helped us track employee engagement and identify areas
of concern. Conducted every two years, this was our fourth such survey, and I was heartened to see that it achieved the highest response rate to date (86%), which reflects people’s continuing confidence in it as a trusted feedback mechanism. This year’s scores improved across all categories compared to the last survey, with positive feedback in areas such as health, safety, information sharing and communication.
The survey also highlighted areas for further improvement, including some aspects of leadership and performance management.
I take this feedback very seriously, and am determined to address these areas for improvement. Initiatives that have already begun include increased clarity on accountabilities being integrated into the BPM framework described above.

BROADENING OUR BASE FOR INNOVATION During the year, we continued to recognise the importance of accessing new science and technologies that will boost our own innovation and provide a broader base for researching the next generation of medicines that offer better results for patients. To that end, we completed a number of acquisitions designed to add strength to our pipeline
of new medicines. This strategy brings
with it a duty to ensure that our CR policies and principles are understood and applied consistently by the new members of the AstraZeneca family of companies. For that reason we have included this in our CR Priority Action Plan this year.

IN THE DEVELOPING WORLD
We continue to explore ways in which AstraZeneca can help more patients around the world to get the healthcare they need.
As part of this, we are piloting a project in Ethiopia which centres around building local capability in breast cancer care and management. We have also entered a new
partnership with Voluntary Service Overseas, in which our employees will be able to lend their skills and experience to help the charity
in its goal to improve key infrastructures
in developing countries. Our expanded support for the Red Cross and African Medical and Research Foundation in their community-focused efforts to combat TB continues to be consistent with our own research effort in Bangalore to find a new treatment for this devastating disease. You can read more about this on page 8.

OUR CLIMATE CHANGE CHALLENGE
In common with most businesses, our potential impact on climate change arises from the global warming emissions from energy use at our facilities, from other
in-house activities and from the various means of transport we use. However, we also face an additional challenge since
some of our asthma therapies use propellant gases in their delivery mechanisms,
which potentially contribute to global warming. As we grow our business and more patients benefit from such therapies, the associated increase in emissions means we will not be able to continue to reduce our emissions of global warming gases year-on-year. We are working hard,
however, to ensure that our emissions from all sources, including products, will in 2010 be no greater than they were in 2000.
You can read more about this on page 30.

EVERY INTERACTION COUNTS
We are making progress but in the ever- changing world in which we live, we will continue to face challenges as well as opportunities for our CR. We know that as we continue to drive our business forward, we must not lose sight of our fundamental responsibility to do business the right way. Our reputation with our stakeholders and wider society depends on it. Wherever people are located within the Company, and whatever their role, everyone has a
part to play. Every interaction counts towards ensuring that AstraZeneca continues to be welcomed as a valued and trusted member
of society.

DAVID R BRENNAN
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

“I WANT ASTRAZENECA TO
BE VALUED AS A SOURCE OF INNOVATIVE MEDICINES THAT HELP IN THE FIGHT AGAINST HUMAN DISEASE, AND TO BE TRUSTED FOR THE WAY IN WHICH WE DO THAT.”

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Astrazeneca 2007

Q.2007년부터는 제목이 ‘ANNUAL REPORT AND
FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007’이런 식으로 나오는데, CSR 에모모호하게 포함하는 것 같아서, 확인 좀 부탁드려요. 

CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT

istent with the values of the Company.

During 2007, the Board has reviewed key aspects of the Company’s strategy and operations including its financial policies, human resources planning, and externalisation projects. In January 2008, the Board concluded its yearly review of its own processes to ensure that it is functioning well and properly representing the interests of shareholders.

At the end of July, I announced the resignation of Jon Symonds as Chief Financial Officer
to pursue his career outside AstraZeneca.
Group sales increased by 7% in 2007 to a total
of $29.6 billion. The inclusion of MedImmune for seven months of the year increased sales by 3%. Operating profit was $8.1 billion, reduced by restructuring and synergy costs of $966 million and by a $178 million loss from the inclusion of MedImmune. Excluding restructuring and synergy costs, operating profit for 2007 was up by 8% and R&D investment increased to over $5 billion for
the full year.

Reported earnings per share for the full year were $3.74, compared with $3.86 in 2006. Earnings per share excluding restructuring and synergy costs were $4.20, compared with our guidance of $3.98 to $4.13 on the same basis. The Board has recommended a
10% increase in the second interim dividend to $1.35 (67.7 pence, SEK 8.61) per Ordinary Share. This brings the dividend for the full year to $1.87 (93.0 pence, SEK
12.10), an increase of 9%. In 2007, cash distributions to shareholders, through a combination of dividends and share
re-purchases totalled $6.8 billion. Share
re-purchases for the full year amounted to
$4.2 billion. The Board expects to undertake share re-purchases in the region of $1 billion in 2008, subject to business needs.

With the debt that we issued following the acquisition of MedImmune, we have now established a balanced portfolio of short-term funding, which we intend to pay down over the next three or four years, as well as medium- to long-term funding, while still maintaining a strong credit rating.

Our drive to strengthen the pipeline has been led by the review conducted in 2006 to determine the areas of disease where we could derive the most value for patients and shareholders. This resulted in a strategy reflecting both our inherent strength in certain fields of research and the areas of greatest unmet medical need. As a result, we are focusing on six disease areas and ensuring that we have access to leading research in each area. Some of this research resides in our own laboratories and some has been sourced from third party researchers.

We have continued our investment in both areas and you can read a review of the progress made in this report.

The acquisition of MedImmune was a major decision, which the Board sees as transformational for the Company. The addition of MedImmune builds on the earlier investment in Cambridge Antibody Technology in the field of biologics and takes AstraZeneca into vaccine technology for the first time. MedImmune brings not only first class biologics and vaccines assets to the Group but also around 3,000 skilled professionals with expertise ranging from discovery through to commercialisation. In developing areas of medical science, these are skills that are scarce and valuable.  I am confident that the combined strength of our existing small molecule expertise and the newly acquired expertise in large molecules and vaccines will generate benefits for the Company and its shareholders.

Our key products have continued to deliver benefits to millions of patients every day around the world. We have met our sales targets despite depressed pricing in our traditional heartlands of Europe and the US and challenges to our intellectual property. In the emerging markets, we have continued to build our businesses for the benefit of patients today as well as pursuing opportunities to broaden access to our medicines in the future.

2007 has not been an easy year for the pharmaceutical sector. With pressure on pricing and increased demand for investment, companies have been forced to drive efficiencies right across the business in order to maintain shareholder returns. The Board has been fully supportive of the programme that David Brennan has put in place to improve productivity in every area of the Company. There is no question that this sort of activity poses challenges for a management team and the Board believes that this high level of change has been handled responsibly and in a way that is consistent with the values of the Company.

During 2007, the Board has reviewed key aspects of the Company’s strategy and operations including its financial policies, human resources planning, and externalisation projects. In January 2008, the Board concluded its yearly review of its own processes to ensure that it is functioning well and properly representing the interests of shareholders.

At the end of July, I announced the resignation of Jon Symonds as Chief Financial Officer to pursue his career outside AstraZeneca. Jon had completed 10 years of distinguished
service in the Group and his experience
and management skills were greatly valued. I am delighted that Simon Lowth joined the Company in November as an Executive Director and the Chief Financial Officer. Simon brings with him a successful track
record of business transformation in previous strategic and financial roles at Scottish Power. He has proved to be a valuable addition to David Brennan’s leadership team.

There were a number of changes to the composition of the Board during the year.
At our AGM in April, we said a warm farewell and thank you to Peter Bonfield and Erna M?ller when they stepped down as Non- Executive Directors following 12 years of service. Their individual contributions to the Company over those years were significant and both served on various Board committees. In addition, Peter ably took on the role of AstraZeneca’s senior, independent Non- Executive Director for many years. Also in April, Joe Jimenez resigned as a Non-Executive Director following his appointment to an executive position at Novartis and we wish him well.

I was pleased on behalf of the Board to be able to welcome Bo Angelin as a new Non- Executive Director in July. Bo is a distinguished medical scientist and I am sure that he will provide a valuable contribution to the Board’s work. It also gives me pleasure to report that Michele Hooper, who has been a member of the Board for over four years now, has agreed to become our new senior, independent Non-Executive Director, in succession to Peter Bonfield.

In 2008, our strategy remains unchanged: we shall continue to meet the needs of patients today, while investing for the benefit of patients of the future. By doing this successfully and responsibly, we will deliver the greatest rewards to shareholders and society as a whole. The business environment will continue to present challenges and the Board will work with
David Brennan and his leadership team to ensure that our business continues to adapt as needed, taking advantage of opportunities and investing for sustainable growth.

LOUIS SCHWEITZER
Chairman


CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW

2007 was a transformational year for
AstraZeneca and I am very proud of the way that my Senior Executive Team and all our employees are adapting to a challenging external environment and addressing the needs of our business.

Strengthening our pipeline continues to be our highest priority and we have made substantial progress over the past twelve months. We have also successfully delivered against our sales targets, whilst continuing to challenge all aspects of our cost base and drive productivity throughout the organisation.

The acquisition of MedImmune in June gave us a leading position in biologics technology and took us into vaccines for the first time. This was a very significant move for the Group. Increased investment in these approaches to fighting disease was key to our strategy of strengthening our ability to deliver the next generation of valued medicines. MedImmune is a leader in both biologics and vaccines and brings expertise and capabilities that span the pipeline from discovery through commercialisation. It is also a vertically- integrated company that has invested for future growth and gives us significant biologics and vaccines manufacturing capability and capacity. By combining our own biologics projects and those of Cambridge Antibody Technology under MedImmune’s leadership,
I believe  we have created a powerful engine to drive future development.

Our key strategic priorities are:

>  Strengthening our pipeline of new medicines from our own research laboratories and by gaining access to scientific innovation outside AstraZeneca.

>  Delivering the full potential of all our marketed medicines through rigorous life cycle management and excellent
customer support.

>  Challenging our cost structure to make
room for further investment in R&D and externalisation, whilst increasing access to our medicines.

Promoting a culture of responsibility and accountability is a fourth priority that underpins the other three.

As the industry changes and our business evolves, it is important that we have a workforce and style of leadership that can leverage opportunities and adapt quickly to changing circumstances. I believe  that a lean infrastructure, combined with an agile mindset and a responsible approach to business, will be a critical success factor in determining our future.

STRENGTHENING THE PIPELINE
I am pleased to report very significant progress during the year. The number of phase III projects in the pipeline has doubled to 10 from five and it was a record year for our phase I development pipeline with 24 new molecules entering first tests in man, compared with 12 in 2006. Importantly, we are also improving the quality of our early phase pipeline by researching the use of biomarkers, to give
us an indication early in the discovery process of any toxicity or other signals that might impede progression of a molecule at a
later stage.

It is just as important to gain access to leading science from outside AstraZeneca and our externalisation programme has delivered over 20 major deals in the
last two years, as well as the acquisitions of Cambridge Antibody Technology and MedImmune.

We also continue to partner with external organisations that share our commitment
to finding novel solutions for important areas of healthcare. During 2007 we formed
a number of important new collaborations, including one with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company to co-develop and co-commercialise saxagliptin and dapagliflozin, two products
in development for the treatment of
Type 2 diabetes.

VALUED MEDICINES
At AstraZeneca, we take great pride in our track record of pharmaceutical innovation which spans seven decades and includes the introduction of many world-leading medicines. The key products in our range continue to make a difference for millions
of patients around the world every day.
We remain focused on leveraging the full
potential of our range and delivered a growth in sales during 2007 despite pricing challenges in key markets in Europe and the US, where payers and healthcare providers have been wrestling with the dual challenge of a growing demand for healthcare as a result of the ageing population and continued public demand for the benefits that modern medicines provide.

Highlights in 2007 included:

>  Seroquel XR, the sustained release form
of our schizophrenia therapy, was launched in the US. It was also approved for sale in Canada and The Netherlands and the EU mutual recognition process has been completed, paving the way for launches in other European markets in the coming months. Regulatory submissions for Seroquel XR for the treatment of major depressive disorder and generalised anxiety disorder are planned for 2008.

>  The atherosclerosis label for our statin, Crestor, has been approved in the US, reflecting its efficacy in slowing the progression of atherosclerosis in adult patients with elevated cholesterol as an adjunct to diet.

>  We launched our asthma therapy, Symbicort, in the US and our innovative Symbicort Maintenance and Reliever Therapy (Symbicort SMART) is proving popular with patients in many European countries because, by combining both maintenance and rapid relief therapies
in a single inhaler, it puts them more in control of their variable disease.

>  Nexium continues to be the strongest performing branded proton pump inhibitor in the US, although the highly competitive market and the challenge of generic omeprazole are both significant. In the emerging markets, Nexium continues to show very strong growth.

>  Arimidex remains the product of choice for post-menopausal breast cancer patients and its sales are firmly in line with market growth.

In the emerging markets of Asia, Eastern Europe and Russia, we have continued to build our business focusing on maximising our sales today whilst investing to broaden access to our medicines in future. During the year, we opened a new Process R&D facility in Bangalore, India, to add to the existing R&D facility and we are investing in a new centre for translational medicine in Shanghai, which will focus on researching medicines
especially designed to help patients in China.

In Japan, the world’s second largest pharmaceutical market, we are working with the authorities to increase the range of medicines available to Japanese patients. Mutual recognition of research data generated in other Asian countries means that we are able to progress more quickly with dedicated studies for these markets.

Inevitably, as a successful, research-based pharmaceutical company, this year we have received further challenges to some of our patents, the details of which are set out elsewhere in this report. We will maximise the value of our intellectual property and will vigorously defend our patents in order to protect the many years of research, and the considerable investment, which have delivered the medicines to which those patents relate.

BECOMING LEAN AND AGILE
In 2007, we accelerated our focus on productivity, recognising the pressure on
the industry to deliver more with less. In the first quarter we made the first significant announcement of role reductions associated with the implementation of our asset strategy review. As a result of this review, we have changed the manufacturing pattern across our operations and have addressed excess manufacturing capacity in some areas.
Our drive is to maximise the efficiency of our supply chain whilst maintaining the highest possible standards of quality and security of supply at every stage.

At the half-year, we announced further job reductions resulting from productivity improvements in other areas of the business. The full implementation of these reductions will take until 2009. However, they reflect important efficiency improvements including: the centralisation of clinical data
management to a single approach managed at two locations; re-shaping the sales force in several European countries to be able to better respond to changes in the respective national healthcare systems; the establishment of a single, global contract with IBM for information technology services and support; and the globalisation of functions such as Human Resources and
Regulatory Affairs.

Implementing changes that involve the loss
of loyal employees is one of the hardest tasks for a Chief Executive Officer and 2007 has been particularly challenging in this respect. Throughout, we have consulted fully with
staff representatives and acted in line with local labour laws. We have also provided appropriate support to help individuals to pursue their careers beyond AstraZeneca and have engaged with the communities around our affected sites to mitigate the local impact.

DOING BUSINESS THE RIGHT WAY
As we drive the business forward, maintaining our fundamental commitment to corporate responsibility  (CR) remains a top priority.
We continuously work to ensure that our
high level values are translated into consistent actions and behaviours worldwide that are aligned with, and support the achievement
of our strategic business objectives.

In 2007, we further strengthened our CR leadership and governance to make sure that we have appropriate systems in place for identifying the risks and opportunities
associated with our CR, together with effective frameworks for managing them and driving compliance with all relevant policies and standards. As part of this, we reviewed and expanded our Code of Conduct to provide clear direction and guidance for all our staff on what is required of them. The new Code
is being translated into over 40 languages and will be distributed to all our employees in early 2008. In addition, since the acquisition in June, we are working closely with MedImmune, which has its own long-standing commitment to working responsibly, to make sure that our policies and standards are aligned.

CR targets and measures are included in our business performance management framework and related objectives are being included in personal targets at all levels to support the integration of CR management across the
full range of our business activities.

You can read about key aspects of our commitment to doing business the right way, and our performance, throughout this report and further details are provided on
our website, astrazeneca.com/responsibility. We are making progress, but in the ever- changing world in which we live, there will always be work to do to ensure that AstraZeneca is not only valued as a source of great medicines, but also trusted for the
way in which we do business worldwide.

SENIOR EXECUTIVE TEAM CHANGES
There were several important changes to my Senior Executive Team during 2007. Following the departure of Jon Symonds at the end of July after a decade of outstanding service, we welcomed Simon Lowth as our new
Chief Financial Officer at the beginning of November. During the year, Lynn Tetrault also joined the team as Executive Vice-President, Human Resources and Corporate Affairs, following the retirement of Tony Bloxham.
The responsibilities of Tony Zook, President and Chief Executive Officer, North America were extended to include Global Marketing following the departure of Martin Nicklasson to pursue his career outside AstraZeneca. David Mott, President and Chief Executive Officer of MedImmune, also joined the team following the completion of the acquisition of MedImmune in June.

LOOKING AHEAD
We will continue our drive to broaden access to our existing medicines, improving adherence by refining the dosage and delivery mechanisms and providing support to physicians and carers. While building our business in mature markets, we will also develop the promising foundations we have in emerging markets. Driving productivity and cost reduction will continue to be a priority whilst still maintaining the levels of
strategic investment in R&D needed to push the boundaries of medical science for the benefit of patients around the world.

Whilst we cannot predict with precision what the next decade will look like for our business, we do know that the environment in which we operate will continue to present new challenges and opportunities. I am confident that AstraZeneca has the strategy, skills and resources that will enable us to anticipate, and adapt quickly and effectively to the changes that our business faces. Above all, our single-minded determination to succeed will ensure that we will continue to stay focused on our mission to deliver great medicines and a business performance that creates enduring value for our shareholders.

DAVID R BRENNAN
Chief Executive Officer


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Astrazeneca 2008
CHAIRMAN’s STATEMENT

During 2008, AstraZeneca maintained its strong focus on delivering benefit to patients and value to shareholders and society through industry-leading R&D productivity, commercial excellence and operational efficiency.

Group sales increased by 3% in 2008 to a total of $31.6 billion. Operating profit was
$9.1 billion, up 4%. Reported earnings per share for the full year were $4.20 ($3.74 in
2007). The Board has recommended an 11% increase in the second interim dividend to
$1.50 (104.8 pence, SEK 12.02) per Ordinary Share. This brings the dividend for the full year to $2.05 (132.6 pence, SEK 15.36), an increase of 10%. In 2008, cash distributions to shareholders, through a combination of dividends and share re-purchases totaled $3,349 million. Share re-purchases for the full year amounted to $610 million. Shareholders also benefited in 2008 from an improvement in the Company share price. The London- listed share price increased by 30% during the course of 2008, as compared to a decline of 31% for the FTSE 100 index.

During the year, we continued to invest in enhancing our R&D capabilities alongside accessing high quality opportunities externally. This investment is guided by our disease
area strategy, which reflects both our inherent strengths and the areas of greatest unmet medical need. We now have a strong development portfolio of small molecule and biological products targeted at bringing new therapeutic approaches to important areas of healthcare as quickly and safely as possible.
In particular, the improvements we have made to our cycle times mean that we should
deliver new medicines to patients even faster.
We continued to drive sales growth despite
continuing pricing and intellectual property challenges in our Established Markets. Managing the impact of challenges from generic manufacturers is now a key feature of our business. The Board was pleased to support the Senior Executive Team strategy of settling legal challenges concerning Nexium and Pulmicort Respules, rather than
managing the continued cost and uncertainty associated with a sustained legal defence. Protecting our intellectual property ensures that we can re-invest in the discovery and development of the medicines of the future and we must manage this important asset actively and effectively over the long term.

We continued our investment in fast-growing economies to strengthen our platform
for growth in key Emerging Markets, and, alongside the rest of the pharmaceutical industry, we continued to drive efficiencies across our organisation to support sustained shareholder returns.

In conjunction with the Senior Executive Team, during 2008 the Board reviewed the Group’s strategy. This review reinforced our commitment to delivering differentiated medicines that make a meaningful difference to patients’ lives and to doing so in an efficient, focused, cost-effective and responsible manner. More information about the work and operation of the Board and its Committees is set out in the Business Organisation and Corporate Governance section of this Report.

In February and September 2008 we announced the appointments of Jean-Philippe Courtois and Rudy Markham respectively. Jean-Philippe’s considerable experience with Microsoft in global sales and marketing, including Emerging Markets, will be of great benefit to the work of the Board. Rudy’s considerable experience of over 35 years at Unilever, latterly in finance, will also be invaluable to the work of the Board and to the Audit Committee.

In November 2008, we announced the retirement of John Patterson who will leave the Company after 34 years of service and will retire from the Board on 31 March 2009.
John has made an important and highly valued contribution to the business over the course of his career with AstraZeneca and over the last five years as a member of the Board.
At the end of 2008, Graeme Musker stepped
down from his position as Group Secretary and Solicitor, and will retire in early 2009. The Board appointed Adrian Kemp to the position of Company Secretary with effect
from 1 January 2009. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Graeme for his 30 years’ of invaluable service, advice and guidance to the Board and the Company.

The Board continues to be confident in the strong leadership of David Brennan and his Senior Executive Team and would like to thank them and all AstraZeneca’s employees for their hard work and dedication, which underpins the Company’s success.

The fundamentals of the world pharmaceutical market remain robust. Although industry growth is slowing, mainly due to ever-greater pressure on costs and increased generic competition, the continued demand for healthcare that underpins the industry’s future growth prospects remains strong.
The pharmaceutical industry is also arguably less exposed than other sectors to the current global economic downturn, although some impact may result from increased constraints on payers, suppliers and distributors.

Nevertheless, our rapidly changing business environment will continue to be a challenging one. The companies that will be most successful will be those that are able to manage the risks and maximise the opportunities effectively, through timely and efficient investment, appropriate use of intellectual property and constructive  stakeholder engagement.  I am confident that AstraZeneca is such a company and that, with our clear strategy, strong leadership and intense focus on execution, we will continue to deliver sustainable success, to the benefit of
patients, shareholders and society.
 
Louis SCHWEITZER
Chairman


CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’s REVIEW

We are committed to delivering on our strategy and to changing the way we work so we are prepared for the future. 2008 was a year of both opportunity and challenge for the Company. I am proud to report that we delivered some significant successes against a tough background of slowing growth rates
in Established Markets, ever-greater pressure on costs and increasing challenge from generic manufacturers.

Our strategy is clear. At its simplest, it is to create enduring value for shareholders by delivering medicines that make a meaningful difference to patient health.

Our vision is to be an innovation-driven, research-based pharmaceutical company focused on human health and capable of delivering a consistent flow of innovative and differentiated products to patients in markets around the world. To achieve this we will make sustained investment in an industry-leading, externally networked R&D organisation with expertise in both small molecule and large molecule technologies. We will commercialise our products rapidly and globally at affordable prices through a world class sales and marketing organisation operating in both primary and specialty care markets.

Underpinning our research and commercial operations will be a supply chain and
operating infrastructure, through which we are aiming to achieve industry-leading efficiency.

Above all, we will seek to apply an investment discipline to all of our activities that attaches equal weight to delivering patient health and creating shareholder wealth. We will only invest shareholders’ funds where we see attractive returns and the opportunity to
create enduring shareholder value.
To help the organisation maintain our focus
on execution, our strategy targets four main priorities:

STRENGTHENING ouR pIpElINE
We are discovering and developing effective medicines faster than ever before and the considerable progress we have made in reducing development cycle times and costs has been achieved without compromising on safety and quality.

During 2008, we made eight significant regulatory submissions across several jurisdictions to broaden the use of our marketed products Seroquel, Symbicort, Iressa and FluMist, as well as two new product submissions for motavizumab, an improved anti-respiratory syncytial virus monoclonal antibody, and Onglyza™, for treating Type 2 diabetes. We have strengthened our mid-stage pipeline and now have 10 projects in Phase
III development. 32 projects entered the pipeline during the year and 44 projects were progressed to their next phase of development. We now have a total of 144 projects within
a balanced pipeline of small molecule and biological products. This compares with 137 projects in 2007.

We also continue to pursue high quality external opportunities to enhance further our in-house capabilities and have completed over 40 major deals in the last two years. These deals have increased the quality and size of our pipeline and improved the prospects
of consistently launching more new medicines each year as the pipeline matures.

GROWING THE BUSINESS
Backed by our 70 year track record of innovation, we have a range of medicines on the market that continue to make a difference in important areas of healthcare ? and our commitment to delivering the full benefit of these medicines to patients and maximising their commercial potential remains undiminished.

Highlights of the year included the conclusion of a major study of our statin, Crestor, in the primary prevention area, which demonstrated significant reduction in major cardiovascular events ? 44% compared to placebo in men and women with elevated hsCRP and other risk factors but low/normal cholesterol levels, a level of cardiovascular risk reduction not previously seen in a large placebo controlled statin outcome trial.
Seroquel XR has had approvals for acute bipolar depression, acute bipolar mania and as an adjunct therapy to lithium or divalproex for bipolar maintenance treatment in a number of major jurisdictions. These approvals for new indications put Seroquel XR on track to deliver its full therapeutic potential.

In addition, our expertise in regulatory, sales and marketing is also helping to bring to markets outside the US the biological products that MedImmune brought to our range, specifically motavizumab and FluMist.

Despite the challenging market conditions, we have continued to drive high performance and market share gains in our Established Markets and increased sales across North America, Europe and Japan. I believe our sales forces are among the best and we continue
to evolve our commercial model to ensure that we stay at the forefront of best practice in meeting the needs of our customers.

We continue to deliver strong, profitable growth in our Emerging Markets, while continuing
our strategic investment in these markets aimed at ensuring that we are appropriately resourced to deliver the full potential of the business opportunities in these developing economies. One in seven dollars of our sales now comes from Emerging Markets and as our presence in these countries matures, and as their economies  strengthen,  I am confident that we will be able to increase further business efficiency and deliver improved profitability in the future.

We received further challenges to some of our patents during the year, the details of which are set out elsewhere in this Report. We will continue to vigorously defend our patents
to protect the many years of research and the considerable investment which have delivered the medicines to which those patents relate.

BECOMING LEAN AND AGIL 
We have to be relentless in our pursuit of opportunities to drive further efficiencies across the value chain. As well as the progress delivered in R&D, we have reshaped our manufacturing and packing activities to improve productivity whilst maintaining high standards of quality and security; we have established agreements with third parties who offer specialist outsourced expertise in areas ranging from data management to catering; and put even greater focus on leveraging efficiencies within our global procurement activity.
Our continuing drive to improve efficiency and effectiveness resulted in further planned reductions of our workforce in some areas of our business during 2008 and our work on these initiatives continues. My management teams and I, take these changes very seriously and remain
committed to ensuring that we manage these changes in line with our core values. Throughout, we have consulted with staff representatives and acted in line with local labour laws. We have also provided appropriate support to help individuals pursue their careers beyond AstraZeneca and have engaged with communities around the affected sites to mitigate the local impact.

DOIN BUSINSS THE RIGHT WAY 
I want AstraZeneca to be valued as a source of great medicines, but also to be trusted for the way in which we do business. Therefore, our strategic focus includes a fourth priority, which underpins and supports achievement of the first three. We must continue to nurture a culture of responsibility and accountability across all aspects of our business activity to ensure that AstraZeneca continues to be welcomed as a trusted member of society.

Our core values are the cornerstone of this culture and in 2007, we reviewed and expanded our Code of Conduct to provide clear direction as to how these high level values are to be translated into consistent actions across all areas of our business.
The new Code went into effect in 2008, and it was followed by mandatory training during the year for everyone in the Company.

During the year, 86% of our employees participated in our global employee opinion survey. Results showed that employee engagement scores ? defined as the extent to which people are committed to the future success of the Company ? were very strong, and we continue to outperform other pharmaceutical companies in this area.
The results also indicated that people were seeing increased levels of co-operation between senior leaders, leading to more effective global and cross-functional working. The survey also identified some key areas
that continue to require attention, including change management, personal development and leadership communication.  I take this feedback very seriously and new targets that address these issues have been included in the Senior Executive Team’s performance
goals for 2009.

SENIOR EXECUTIV TEAM (SET) CHANGES 
I am delighted that we have further strengthened the SET through the appointments of Anders Ekblom and Jeff Pott. Anders was appointed to the role of Executive Vice-President, Development with effect from 1 January 2009. Jeff has already taken up his new role as the Group’s General Counsel, having spent a number of years as legal counsel within AstraZeneca’s US business, most recently with responsibility
for managing intellectual property litigation within the US.

During 2008 we announced that, after a long and distinguished career within the Company, John Patterson, Executive Director, Development, will retire at the end of March
2009. John has made an important and lasting contribution to the business over the course of his career with AstraZeneca. Under his leadership, the productivity and efficiency of our product development has improved significantly, and we now have the largest pipeline in our history. Also in 2008, David Mott, formerly President of MedImmune left the Company to pursue other opportunities. The role of President of MedImmune has been taken on by Tony Zook, who has also retained his responsibilities as Chief Executive Officer, North America and Executive Vice-President, Global Marketing.

LOOKING AHEAD
Despite the very significant and economic challenges being experienced around the world, I am confident the progress that we continue to make in our four priority areas means AstraZeneca is well placed to manage the challenges and opportunities of a rapidly changing business environment. I believe that we have the strategy, the engines for growth and the levels of commitment it takes to continue making a meaningful difference in patient health through great medicines, and creating enduring value for our shareholders and society.

DAVID R BRENNAN 
Chief Executive Officer

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Astrazeneca 2009

Chairman’s Statement

Group sales increased by 7% in 2009 to a total of $32,804 million. Reported operating profit was $11,543 million, up 24%. Reported earnings per share for the full year were
$5.19 (2008: $4.20). The Board has recommended a second interim dividend of $1.71, a 14% increase over the second interim dividend awarded in 2008. This brings the dividend for the full year to $2.30 (141.4 pence, SEK 16.84), an increase of 12% from 2008. In 2009, cash distributions to shareholders through dividends totalled $2,977 million.

Meeting patient need lies at the heart of what we do. In 2009, immediate need was met when our people and technology enabled us to develop and be the first to market an H1N1 influenza (swine flu) vaccine in the US. Equally, when generic producers proved unable to supply the market for Toprol-XL, we successfully rebuilt our supply chain to fill the void.

2009 was also a year in which AstraZeneca science was at the forefront of the industry, ensuring that we are able to meet patient need in the longer term. Two of the biggest landmark clinical trials to report in recent years, the Crestor JUPITER and the Brilinta PLATO trials, engaged academic and clinical communities across the globe. We have made regulatory submissions based on the results of these trials.

Our strategic focus is on innovation-driven medicines that are valued by patients and payers alike. We continue to invest in new medicines and we work to protect our investments by rigorously defending our patent rights and thereby optimising our intellectual property. To this end, AstraZeneca will vigorously defend the challenge to the Crestor US substance patent brought by a number of generic drug manufacturers when the case goes to trial in February 2010.

Worldwide, pharmaceutical industry revenue growth, while positive, is slowing. This is due to pressure on healthcare costs, exacerbated by the current economic downturn, as well
as increased competition from generic medicines. We believe pressures on costs are likely to continue, especially in the US.

Nevertheless, the demand for healthcare that will drive the industry’s future growth remains strong, especially from economic and demographic growth in Emerging Markets and the growing number of patients there who can afford our medicines. In response to these developments we have continued to drive change in the business. We are reshaping our presence in Established Markets to
ensure we remain competitive and investing in Emerging Markets around the world so that we can benefit from their growth.

We used our assessment of the future for the pharmaceutical sector as the basis for the annual strategy review with David Brennan and his executive team.
We confirmed our commitment to being an integrated, global and innovation-driven prescription-based biopharmaceutical business. While there has already been much change in the business, the review also highlighted the need to redouble our efforts
if we are to stay at the forefront of the sector. Our plans for the business are outlined in more detail in David’s Review and the Strategy and Performance section.

In recognition of the Group’s strong balance sheet, sustainable significant cash flow and the Board’s confidence in the strategic direction and long-term prospects for the business, we have adopted a progressive dividend policy, intending to maintain or grow the dividend each year. In order to ensure that long-term management incentives and shareholder interests remain aligned, we are tabling proposals for a new share-based long-term incentive plan for shareholder approval. This has been developed as part of an overall review of executive remuneration. Further information about this plan and the review can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report from page 101 and in the Notice of AGM.

During 2009, H?kan Mogren retired from the Board, having been a Director of the Company since its formation in 1999. Before then, he had served as Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Astra AB for more than 10 years. He brought a wealth of experience and sound judgement to the work of the Board which we valued highly. As announced last year, John Patterson
also retired in 2009. On behalf of their fellow Directors, I would like to reiterate my thanks to both of them for their service to the Company.

Once again, the Board would like to place on record its appreciation of the leadership shown by David Brennan and his team.
On behalf of the Board I would also like to thank AstraZeneca employees around the world for their contribution to what has been a very successful year. Their contribution, which has been the foundation of our past success, is also needed more than ever as we address the challenges to come. I am confident that AstraZeneca has the skills
and capabilities to continue that success by harnessing both its own efforts and the efforts of those with whom we work.

Louis Schweitzer
Chairman

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Despite the difficult world economic conditions, 2009 was a successful year for AstraZeneca. Our strong performance and considerable achievement in making a real difference to patient health around the world meant that our shareholders were also able to benefit.



CEO’s Review

Operational highlights of the year include four significant regulatory filings for new medicines and two product launches. We agreed four late-stage project collaborations and have 89 projects in clinical development. In addition, sales of Toprol-XL and H1N1 influenza
(swine flu) vaccine in the US accounted for three percentage points of the global revenue growth at CER, while growth in Emerging Markets was up 12%, accounting for 13% of total revenue. 2009 was also the year in which we reached an agreement in principle with the US Attorney’s Office to settle claims relating to Seroquel sales and marketing practices and to make a payment of $524 million (including interest).

If we are to bring benefits to patients and create value for shareholders, we need
a constant flow of new and innovative medicines. Of the four regulatory filings made in 2009, Brilinta is a treatment for acute coronary syndromes, Certriad is for the treatment of lipid abnormalities and Vimovo is for arthritic pain. The fourth submission was for a fixed-dose combination of Onglyza™ and metformin for treating diabetes. 2009 saw Onglyza™ launched in the US and in the EU for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes. Iressa, our anti-cancer medicine, was launched in the EU. Of course, in the process of developing new medicines, we experience setbacks as well as successes. The decision we made during the year to withdraw the regulatory submissions we had made for our anti-cancer medicine, Zactima, came as a disappointment.

As projects leave the development pipeline, we replenish it with new projects that will yield regulatory submissions in future years. We now have 11 projects in Phase III development. Twenty-nine projects entered the pipeline during the year and 53 projects were progressed to their next phase of development. We seek to provide each
of these projects with a business case underpinned by a clear scientific rationale and sound financial case.

In strengthening our pipeline we look beyond our own laboratories to access the best science and external sources of innovation. As a result, a significant number of our projects come from our programme of collaboration. These include two of our regulatory filings: Certriad was submitted with Abbott and Vimovo was submitted by our partner Pozen Inc. In addition, Onglyza™ was the first product of our diabetes collaboration with BMS.

Other collaborations agreed in 2009 included the in-licence from Forest of ceftaroline, a ‘next generation’ anti-infective. We enhanced the value of this programme in December with
an agreement to acquire Novexel, a private infection research company. We also agreed in-licensing deals with Nektar and Targacept.

A further focus in 2009 was the continued reshaping of the business to give us the organisational flexibility we need to take advantage of opportunities. Initiatives include outsourcing some of our R&D activities, other business processes and support services, such as HR. To meet evolving customer needs we are adapting our methods of sales and marketing and altering our supply chains.

Our drive to improve efficiency and effectiveness across AstraZeneca has resulted in further reductions in our workforce. The executive team and I remain committed to ensuring that we manage these changes in the right way. This means that, in meeting the needs of the business, we deal responsibly and sympathetically with affected individuals and the communities in which they live.

We continue to integrate responsible business considerations into everyday decision-making across all our activities, reinforcing personal accountability for compliance with our Code of Conduct through training and monitoring of business practices. We were pleased to have our efforts recognised externally with improved scores in the 2009 Dow Jones Index. Looking ahead, we have identified areas for improvement and will take action
to strengthen further our governance and management processes, building on our progress to date and driving continuous improvement throughout the business.

2009 also saw some changes to the executive team. Jan Lundberg, Executive Vice-President, Discovery Research left AstraZeneca in November. We thank him for his significant contribution to the business. Christer K?hler has taken over the role on an interim basis. Bruno Angelici, Executive Vice-President, International Sales and Marketing Organisation, will be leaving AstraZeneca later in 2010. He has made an enormous contribution and we thank him for his sound judgement and strong leadership.

Finally, the achievements of the year would not have been possible without the dedication and hard work of all our employees, to whom I offer my thanks. For many of our employees 2009 was a year of change. The pace of change is not going to let up in 2010. Indeed, it is going to accelerate.  I am confident that our staff will respond with the commitment they have shown in the past.

The Strategy and Performance section from page 14 outlines our plans and priorities for 2010 and beyond, which we need to implement to ensure we prosper in the years ahead. In doing so, we will improve the health of patients around the world and thereby create value for our shareholders.

David R Brennan
Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information

2009 was a year of considerable achievement in which I believe we laid firm foundations for the future success of the business. Underpinning all this is excellent execution of our plans, improved organisational flexibility and a committed workforce.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Astrazeneca 2010

Q. 2010 보고서에는 정확하게 CEO나 Chairman message가 없네요… 확인 부탁드려요.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Astrazeneca 2011

Q. 2011보고서도 같은 형태입니다. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- AstraZeneca 2010

At AstraZeneca, we are dedicated to the research, development and marketing of medicines that make a difference in healthcare. For us, this is at the core of our responsibility to our stakeholders and society. Successful pharmaceutical innovation, delivered responsibly, brings benefit for patients, creates value for shareholders and contributes to the economic development of the communities we serve.

Today, new medicines are needed more than ever. People are living longer, populations are increasing and new markets such as China are fast emerging. And despite significant medical advances in recent decades, there are still many diseases which are not well treated or there is not yet an effective medicine. But while demand continues to grow, the coming years represent an unprecedented challenge for the pharmaceutical industry and for AstraZeneca. We face patent expiries on major medicines, ever higher hurdles for R&D productivity and increasing pressure on pricing as healthcare budgets around the world feel the strain. To succeed in this increasingly competitive environment, we need to get even better at what we do and build stronger relationships with our customers and other stakeholders.

In early 2010, AstraZeneca announced a refreshed business strategy. Our overall direction remains the same but we have accelerated our effort in some key areas to make sure we are well positioned to manage the challenges ahead. We are transforming our R&D to leverage the best of what we have and building the capabilities that we need for worldclass performance. We will grow our business by further increasing our footprint in emerging markets - strengthening our sales and marketing capability alongside capital investment in new facilities. We are boosting our efforts to source innovation from outside AstraZeneca’s walls and working in partnerships throughout the value chain that broaden the base for success. Across all these areas, we continue to drive efficiency and effectiveness, including increased outsourcing to a diverse range of strategic suppliers.

Our work to implement these changes is underpinned by our continued commitment to the sustainable development of our business which delivers value for our stakeholders and for us. To that end, our responsible business objectives must be closely aligned to, and support delivery of, our business strategy. In the light of our accelerated strategy, the insights gained from dialogue with our stakeholders (link to Stakeholder Engagement) and our internal risk assessment we reviewed and re-shaped our Corporate Responsibility priority action plan during the year. Our new Responsible Business Plan combines our CR and Compliance agendas and puts at the top those areas most impacted by our business changes and which are therefore key enablers of our business strategy.

Alongside effectively managing the particular responsible business challenges associated with the changes to our strategy, we will be maintaining focus on other aspects of our responsibility:
? Patient safety
? Environment
? Employee safety, health and wellbeing
? Community investment

During 2010, we continued to progress our CR agenda and this Responsibility section of our website provides further detailed information in each of our areas of focus. For a quick summary, please visit the our year in brief section.

Looking ahead

AstraZeneca’s continued success depends on us forging strong relationships with our stakeholders, understanding the challenges they face and working together towards a common goal: improved healthcare. The strongest relationships are built on trust and we will continue to drive our responsible business agenda to earn and maintain that trust. Our Responsible Business Plan maps that agenda and sets our direction for the next five years. And because this is a dynamic and rapidly evolving area, we will continue to engage with our stakeholders to stay in touch with the demands of a responsible business and work within the business to explore how we can further improve performance.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- AstraZeneca 2011

Dear Shareholder

I write to you at the end of a year in which researchbased pharmaceutical companies faced a tough marketplace and operating environment. Against this challenging background, disciplined execution of our strategy delivered a good performance. Our strong cash flow supported a significant increase in cash distributions to shareholders and continued investment to drive future growth and value. These conditions also provided the backdrop to the annual review by your Board of our business strategy ? which remains to be a focused, integrated, innovation-driven, global, prescriptionbased biopharmaceutical business.

I would like to take this opportunity to review AstraZeneca’s financial performance in 2011 and the decisions we took to ensure we continue to deliver sustainable value for you. 

Financial performance

Group sales in 2011 were down 2% at CER to $33,591 million (2010: $33,269 million) and reported operating profit was up 10% at $12,795 million (2010: $11,494 million), which included the gain on the sale of Astra Tech. Performance for the year reflected strong double digit sales growth for Crestor, Seroquel XR and Symbicort. It was also impacted by government pricing interventions and generic competition, which combined to reduce revenue by some $3 billion. Revenue in the US was down 2%, as was revenue in markets outside the US: revenue was down 11% in Western Europe, up 4% in Established ROW and up 10% in Emerging Markets.

Reported earnings per share for the full year were up 29% at $7.33 (2010: $5.60), which also included the non-taxable gain of $1.08 from the Astra Tech sale. Our effective tax rate also benefited from an adjustment in respect of prior periods following the announcement in March 2011 that HM Revenue & Customs in the UK and the US Internal Revenue Service had agreed the terms of an Advance Pricing Agreement regarding transfer pricing arrangements for AstraZeneca’s US business. 

A challenging marketplace

The world pharmaceutical market grew by 4.5% in 2011 and the fundamentals of the industry remain strong. First, the world population continues to increase and age: it passed the seven billion mark in 2011, while the number of people over 65 in 2030 is estimated to be almost one billion, double the 2005 figure. Secondly, we are seeing the emergence of expanding numbers of patients in new markets who can access our medicines for the first time. Thirdly, there remains considerable unmet medical need. Chronic diseases are on the increase, not only in wealthy countries but also in middle income and, increasingly, lower income countries. For example, some 346 million people around the world have diabetes while 24 million are affected by Alzheimer’s Disease. Finally, advances in science and technology promise the continued delivery of new medicines that can make a real difference to patient health.

Yet, while the fundamentals remain strong, the challenges facing the industry have been unprecedented in recent years. Patents on some of the world’s most successful innovative medicines are starting to expire and we face increasing competition from generic alternatives. Additionally, the need to improve R&D productivity and the number of product launches remains a critical challenge for the whole sector.

Around the world, rising healthcare costs, coupled with the difficult economic climate and continued austerity measures being implemented by governments, have resulted in pressure on prices. This includes pricing interventions in many countries. The regulatory landscape is changing, becoming more global and more complex. It is no longer enough for new medicines to be safe and effective. Health authorities increasingly require additional information regarding a medicine’s comparative clinical and cost effectiveness.

Our strategic response

It was with these challenges in mind that your Board undertook its strategy review process in 2011. We are confident that long-term growth in demand for innovative biopharmaceuticals will remain strong. We believe there continue to be opportunities to create value for those who invest in pharmaceutical innovation, and that AstraZeneca has the skills and capabilities to take advantage of these opportunities and turn them into long-term value through the research, development and marketing of our medicines. We also recognise that the industry is going through a period of fundamental change as it seeks to overcome the serious challenges we face.

For us, that means a continued focus on ensuring we drive:
> world class productivity in R&D
> increased external collaboration
> a global orientation, reflecting the growth in Emerging Markets
> stronger customer orientation, particularly towards payers
> operational efficiency with a flexible cost base.

Our 2011 review highlighted the ongoing need for a substantial improvement in R&D productivity if we are to sustain acceptable returns to shareholders. We are therefore planning to accelerate our R&D strategy. We intend to take a new approach to Neuroscience, closing our existing research centres and creating a new virtual innovative medicines unit for our R&D in this challenging field. We also plan to reshape our other R&D global functions to better support a more focused portfolio and create a simpler organization with greater flexibility in all functional areas.

In his Chief Executive Officer’s Review on the following pages, David Brennan outlines the steps we took in 2011 to secure our future business success. David also emphasises that how we do business is as important as what we do. We need to continue to work with integrity and to high ethical standards if we are to deliver on our promise of bringing benefits to patients, creating sustainable value for shareholders and contributing to economic and social welfare. In this regard, the Board has an important role to play in setting high standards and monitoring performance.

Outlook

We continue to plan on the basis that revenue will be in the range of $28-34 billion a year over the 2010-14 period, as revenue growth from key franchises that retain exclusivity and continued growth in Emerging Markets are pressured by the loss of market exclusivity on a number of products. However, based on the evolution of the base case assumptions since 2010, such as the downward pressure on revenue from government interventions, revenue for the remainder of the period is likely to be in the lower half of the range. 

Returns to shareholders

In recognition of the Group’s strong balance sheet and sustainable significant cash flow, and the Board’s confidence in the strategic direction and long-term prospects for the business, we announced, in conjunction with the full year 2009 results, the adoption of a progressive dividend policy, intending to maintain or grow the dividend each year. After providing for business investment, funding the progressive dividend policy and meeting our debt service obligations, the Board will also keep under review the opportunity to return cash in excess of these requirements to shareholders through periodic share repurchases.

The Board has recommended a second interim dividend of $1.95, a 5% increase over the second interim dividend awarded in 2010. This brings the dividend for the full year to $2.80 (175.5 pence, SEK 18.54), an increase of 10% from 2010. In 2011, cash distributions to shareholders through dividends totalled $3,764 million and net share repurchases totalled $5,606 million.

Appreciation 

In the face of intensified pressures we delivered a good performance in 2011 and took difficult decisions to ensure the future success of AstraZeneca. None of this would have been possible without the leadership of David Brennan and the other members of his executive team. My thanks, and those of the whole Board, go to them and all our employees for their effort in working to deliver on our promise.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- AstraZeneca PLC 2012

Dear Shareholder

I am glad I was able to meet a number of you in April 2012 when AstraZeneca held its Annual General Meeting in London. At that meeting you elected me as a Director and it is my privilege to have served as your Chairman since June.

Louis Schweitzer and David Brennan
The day of the AGM was, by any measure, an historic one for your Company. It was the day on which David Brennan announced his decision to retire from AstraZeneca as your Chief Executive Officer. It was also the day on which your previous Chairman, Louis Schweitzer, brought forward the date of his intended retirement to 1 June to coincide with that of David.

Louis had been a Director since 2004 and your Chairman for seven years. During that time he worked tirelessly to ensure that the Board was effective in its task of setting our strategy and overseeing its implementation. We are grateful to him for his efforts on your behalf.

As Chief Executive Officer, David led AstraZeneca with skill, integrity and courage during a period of enormous change for the industry and for the Company in particular. I would like to thank David for his selfless leadership during his six years at the helm.

Non-Executive changes
Part of the strength of any board comes from refreshing and renewing the mix of people sitting around the boardroom table. When I joined the Board, I was pleased that both Graham Chipchase and Genevi?ve Berger also became Non-Executive Directors. They bring, respectively, in-depth financial and scientific expertise, as well as significant international business experience to our discussions.

Also in April 2012, we said farewell to Michele Hooper who stood down from the Board. We are all grateful for her distinguished contribution to our work and her dedicated service as Chairman of the Audit Committee and senior independent Non-Executive Director. In her place, John Varley took over as senior independent Non-Executive Director and Rudy Markham became Chairman of the Audit Committee.

A new Chief Executive Officer
Upon my election to the Board I was also appointed Chairman of the Nomination Committee. This enabled me to lead the important process of selecting David Brennan’s successor. This was a process that included both internal and external candidates and culminated in the appointment of Pascal Soriot to the Board as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer on 1 October. 

Pascal joined us from Roche where he had been serving as Chief Operating Officer of the company’s pharmaceuticals division. His was a key appointment at an important time for AstraZeneca. The Board is certain that Pascal’s leadership qualities, combined with his strategic thinking and extensive experience in the industry, make him the right person to drive AstraZeneca to success over the coming years. I am confident that Pascal’s approach and his track record of delivering results in innovation-driven businesses will be valued by shareholders and employees alike.

Following David’s departure, Simon Lowth acted as Interim Chief Executive Officer. The Board and I would like to record our appreciation for his impressive leadership in this period. Supported by a highly capable and committed executive team, Simon maintained the organisation’s focus on key business priorities during a period of significant change.

Sound governance
All the changes I have outlined took place at the same time as AstraZeneca completed a record number of business development deals. We also undertook our annual strategic review, in which Pascal has been fully involved, as well as our regular programme of meetings and business activity. That we have been able to do all this is a tribute both to the sound corporate governance processes we have in place and to the dedication and hard work of my fellow Directors. I am grateful to all of them for the contribution they made in 2012.

Challenging times
We will need to harness all our skills, capabilities and experience if we are to successfully navigate the current harsh climate for the pharmaceutical sector. The world pharmaceutical market is still growing and underlying demographic trends remain favourable to long-term industry growth. However, many of the drivers of demand and supply in the industry are under pressure.

On the demand side, we face increased competition from generic medicines as some of the world’s most successful drugs come off patent. In addition, securing recognition (through reimbursement approval) and reward (through favourable pricing and sales) for innovation is becoming more difficult in the face of intensifying pricing pressures, particularly in Established Markets facing rising healthcare costs. On the supply side, the industry faces an ongoing R&D productivity challenge. R&D costs have risen significantly over the past decade, while industry-wide probability of success continues to decline.

Strategic focus
It is for the reasons outlined above that the outcome of our current strategic review is so important. Our strategy is rooted in our heritage as a company focused on innovative science to deliver great medicines to patients. I firmly believe that it is the path we need to take if we are to remain competitive and return to growth. That path must also include a commitment to the responsible and sustainable development of our business. That is why I was so pleased that we were once again listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in 2012 and retained our listing on the European Index for the fifth year running.

Financial performance
We cannot hope to secure our long-term success if we do not meet our financial targets and deliver acceptable levels of return to our owners. Group sales in 2012 were down 15% to $27,973 million (2011: $33,591 million) and Reported operating profit was down 34% at $8,148 million (2011: $12,795 million). Revenue in the US was down 21% while revenue outside the US was down 11%.

More than 13 percentage points of the revenue decline, approximately $4.5 billion, was related to loss of exclusivity on several brands in the portfolio. Seroquel IR alone declined by more than $3 billion, while regional losses of exclusivity for Atacand, Nexium and Crestor accounted for more than $1 billion. Additionally, the disposals of Astra Tech and Aptium accounted for around 1.7 percentage points of the decline. On the other hand, taken together, Symbicort, Faslodex, Onglyza, Iressa, Brilinta/Brilique and Seroquel XR accounted for more than $600 million of revenue growth. Additionally, our diabetes alliance with BMS is strengthened by the inclusion of the Amylin portfolio and the approval of Forxiga in Europe.

Reported earnings per share were down 29% to $4.99. The decline reflects the $1.08 per share benefit in 2011 from the sale of Astra Tech and higher restructuring costs in 2012.

Returns to shareholders
Consistent with our progressive dividend policy, the Board has recommended a second interim dividend of $1.90. This brings the dividend for the full year to $2.80 (178.6 pence, SEK 18.34). In 2012, cash distributions to shareholders through dividends totalled $3,665 million and net share repurchases totalled $2,206 million. In October, we announced the suspension of our share repurchase programme for 2012 and the Board has decided that no share repurchases will take place in 2013 in order to maintain the flexibility to invest in the business.

Outlook
We believe challenging market conditions will persist in 2013, including continued government interventions in price. The revenue impact from the loss of exclusivity will also continue to affect our performance. In the context of the ongoing update to our strategy, we have withdrawn the planning assumptions for revenue and margin evolution for the period 2010 to 2014 we outlined in January 2010. We plan to hold a Capital Markets Day in March 2013 to provide a more detailed exposition of our strategic priorities.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- AstraZeneca PLC 2013

Dear shareholder
One of the key responsibilities of a board of directors is to set a company’s strategy. As the CEO outlines in his Review on the following pages, and as we seek to demonstrate throughout this Annual Report, your Board has chosen a very clear strategic route to follow. It is rooted in our heritage as a company focused on innovative science to deliver great medicines and sets out our ambition to lead in science and return to growth.

Good governance
As your Directors review our strategy and carry out their other duties, it is my role as Chairman to lead the Board effectively. To my mind, good governance is at the heart of that. So that you can easily see how we are governed, we have provided a corporate governance overview on page 26 of this Annual Report. We also briefly describe how our governance structure supports the delivery of our business strategy. You can find more detail in my full Corporate Governance Report from page 88. On page 24, we have also provided an overview of the risks that might prevent us from achieving the full potential of our strategy.

Transparent reporting
Hand in hand with good governance goes transparent reporting and this year we have made a number of other changes in the Annual Report intended to promote this. Some have been caused by changes in UK reporting regulations, others by changes to the Corporate Governance Code and some by ever-evolving reporting best practice. Significant changes include the introduction of a Strategic Report, which starts by explaining our business model and goes on to describe how each element helps deliver our strategic goals. The Strategic Report is introduced in more detail on page 1.

This year, the Annual Report also includes a revised Directors’ Remuneration Report from page 102, which is introduced by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, John Varley. A separate Audit Committee Report is introduced by the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Rudy Markham.

All the changes we have made are also intended to reflect our greater than ever efforts to make this Annual Report fair, balanced and understandable.

Challenging environment
Any balanced review of AstraZeneca needs to reflect the environment in which we operate. The challenging conditions which I touched on last year continue. The world pharmaceutical market is still growing and underlying demographic trends remain favourable to long-term industry growth. However, many of the drivers of demand and supply in the industry are under pressure.

On the demand side, we face increased competition from generic drugs as some of the world’s most successful medicines come off patent. In addition, securing recognition (through reimbursement approval) and reward for innovation (through favourable pricing and sales) is becoming more difficult in the face of intense pricing pressures, particularly in Established Markets facing rising healthcare costs. On the supply side, the industry faces an ongoing R&D productivity challenge. R&D costs have risen significantly over the past decade, while industry-wide probability of success of new medicines, though showing some recent signs of improvement, has not kept pace.

Loss of exclusivity
Loss of exclusivity has had, and continues to have, a significant impact on AstraZeneca. In 2013, loss of exclusivity on brands such as Arimidex, Atacand, Crestor, Nexium and Seroquel IR in a number of markets accounted for a revenue decline of some $2.2 billion. Over the coming years, this trend will continue as medicines such as Crestor, Nexium and Seroquel XR continue to lose exclusivity in markets such as the US and Europe.

Of course, loss of exclusivity is a normal part of an innovative medicine’s life-cycle. It comes at the end of the period when a new medicine is safeguarded from being copied so that we can generate returns on the investment we have made, both to reinvest in the business and provide an appropriate return to you, our owners. A well-functioning intellectual property system of this type, which rewards innovation, is the principal economic safeguard in our industry. It underpins our business model, which we explore in more detail in the Business model section from page 10.

Our performance in 2013 
As expected, our financial performance in 2013 reflected the ongoing impact of the loss of exclusivity for several key brands, with revenue down 6% to $25,711 million (2012: $27,973 million). Core operating profit fell by 22% to $8,390 million (2012: $11,159 million). The decline in revenue was, in part, offset by our key growth platforms: Brilinta, our diabetes franchise, respiratory, Emerging Markets and Japan, which delivered an incremental $1.2 billion of revenue in 2013. 

Core EPS for 2013 were $5.05, down 23% on 2012. This decline was greater than the decline in revenue primarily due to our investment in our key growth platforms and strengthened pipeline. Reported EPS for the year was down 55% to $2.04. The impairment of Bydureon in the fourth quarter reduced Reported EPS by $1.10, resulting in a Reported loss per share for the quarter of $0.42.

A responsible company
I firmly believe that our commitment to good financial performance needs to be matched by a continued focus on being a responsible company, by working with integrity and delivering sustainable business development. I therefore fully support the decision we have made to focus our responsible business activities on access to healthcare, diversity and reducing our environmental impact. It is where I believe we are able to implement standards that will accelerate our business strategy and deliver wider benefits to society.

It is also gratifying to see our current efforts recognised by again being listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in 2013, with a record-equalling score, and retaining our listing on the European Index for the sixth year running.

Return to shareholders 
Consistent with our progressive dividend policy to maintain or grow the dividend each year, the Board has recommended a second interim dividend of $1.90. This brings the dividend for the full year to $2.80 (176.0 pence, SEK 18.33). 

The Board regularly reviews our distribution policy and overall financial strategy to continue to strike a balance between the interests of the business, our financial creditors and our shareholders. Having regard for business investment, funding the progressive dividend policy and meeting our debt service obligations, we currently believe it is appropriate to continue the suspension of the share repurchase programme which was announced in October 2012. We continue to target a strong, investment grade credit rating.

Outlook 
As we look to the future, we expect a low-to-mid single digit percentage decline in revenue at CER for 2014. In percentage terms, Core EPS for 2014 is expected to decline in the teens at CER. Following the acquisition of BMS’s 50% interest in our joint diabetes business, and as the diabetes business’s pipeline of new products is progressively launched, we expect 2017 revenues will be broadly in line with 2013 revenues. This expectation involves a number of assumptions, including, among other things, Nexium US generic launch in May 2014.

Appreciation
Before closing, and on behalf of the Board, I want to thank the employees of AstraZeneca whose efforts helped us achieve so much in 2013 as we lay the foundations for leading in science and returning to growth. In particular, I want to express my appreciation to Pascal and all the members of the SET for the leadership they have shown and the inspiration they have provided to the organisation.

Finally, I would like to thank all my fellow Directors for the contribution they have made to our discussions throughout a busy 2013. We look forward to welcoming as many of you as possible to our Annual General Meeting in April.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- AstraZeneca PLC 2014

Dear shareholder
As 2014 finished, it brought to a close an exceptional year for AstraZeneca. We ended it fully focused on the delivery of our strategy as an independent company. This means turning our attractive growth prospects and a rapidly progressing pipeline into life-changing medicines and value for shareholders.

In his Review on the following pages, your Chief Executive Officer outlines the progress we made during the year in delivering our strategic priorities. I would like to concentrate on the context in which that progress was made and the implications for you, our owners.

Clear decisions, responsibly made
When Pfizer approached AstraZeneca during 2014, our responsibilities as Directors were clear: to act in a way that promoted the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders. In addition to assessing the value and deliverability of Pfizer’s proposals, we had to have regard to the long-term consequences of our decisions, the interests of employees, relationships with customers, our impact on the wider community, including patients, and the reputation of the Company. At each stage of the process, it was my duty as Chairman to ensure we carried out our deliberations responsibly, with those duties in mind. After extensive review and discussions, your Board rejected Pfizer’s various proposals. We did so because

> the proposals fell short of AstraZeneca’s value as an independent, science-led company

> AstraZeneca had excellent momentum in the delivery of our clearly defined strategy, underpinning the Board’s confidence in our long-term revenue targets and profitability

> Pfizer’s proposals brought uncertainty and risks for AstraZeneca shareholders.

In the wake of that decision, I believe we have taken full advantage of the opportunity to galvanise employees and build on our demonstrable progress as an independent company. 

A responsible business
Of course, acting responsibly is not restricted to the AstraZeneca boardroom. It applies to all our activities. External recognition is particularly helpful in providing independent validation of our performance. I was therefore pleased that we were once again listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in 2014. We also retained our listing on the European Index for the seventh year running.

In the biennial Access to Medicines Index, we were disappointed to find ourselves in 15th position. We remain determined to find new ways to improve access to healthcare. I am confident that our Healthy Heart Africa programme, which aims to improve the lives of hypertensive patients across Africa through increased education, screening, diagnosis and treatment, will make an important contribution.

Improved access matters because our innovative medicines can make a global contribution to better health. They help increase survival rates and improve quality of life for patients in important areas of medical need.

Financial performance in 2014
Revenue was up 3% to $26,095 million, which was in line with our upgraded guidance. On an actual basis, revenue was up 1% as a result of the negative impact of exchange rate movements. Core operating profit in 2014 was down 13% to $6,937 million while Core EPS were $4.28, down 8%.

Our performance reflected the delayed launch of generic Nexium (esomeprazole) in the US as well as the accelerating performance of our growth platforms, which now contribute over half of our revenues. Taken together, they more than offset the impact of loss of exclusivity. Our strong performance in Emerging Markets was a particular highlight, with China becoming our second largest market.

Loss of exclusivity
The loss of exclusivity referred to above, and its timing, has had, and continues to have, an impact on AstraZeneca. Over the coming years, this trend will continue as medicines such as Nexium and Crestor continue to lose exclusivity in key markets, including the US and Europe.

Of course, loss of exclusivity is a normal part of an innovative medicine’s life-cycle. It comes at the end of the period when a new medicine is safeguarded from being copied so that we can generate returns on the investment we have made. A well-functioning intellectual property system of this type, which rewards innovation, is the principal economic safeguard in our industry. It is why we commit significant resources to establishing and defending our patent protections. 

The challenging environment continues
More generally, we continue to face challenging market conditions. While the world pharmaceutical market is growing and underlying demographic trends remain favourable to long-term growth, many of the drivers of demand and supply in the sector are under pressure.

On the demand side, we face increased competition from generic drugs as some of the world’s most successful medicines come off patent. In addition, securing an appropriate level of reward for our medicines is becoming more difficult in the face of intense pricing pressures, particularly in Established Markets facing rising healthcare costs. On the supply side, the industry faces an ongoing R&D productivity challenge. Costs have risen significantly and, while in 2014 the FDA approved the highest number of new medicines for 18 years, there is still some way to go in improving the probability of success of our projects.

Return to shareholders
Consistent with our progressive dividend policy to maintain or grow the dividend each year, the Board has recommended a second interim dividend of $1.90 per Ordinary Share. This brings the dividend for the full year to $2.80 per Ordinary Share.

The Board regularly reviews its distribution policy and its overall financial strategy to strike a balance between the interests of the business, financial creditors and shareholders. We continue to target a strong, investment grade credit rating. 

Outlook
As we look to the future, we expect sales revenue to decline by mid single-digit percent at CER in 2015. Consistent with our business model, we will continue to seek externalisation revenue from collaborations and licensing select products and technologies. Core EPS is expected to increase by low single-digit percent at CER. This expectation involves a number of assumptions, including the imminent launch of a Nexium generic in the US market.

Appreciation
Before closing, and on behalf of the Board, I want to thank the employees of AstraZeneca. Their outstanding efforts helped us achieve so much in 2014 towards leading in science and returning to growth. In particular, I want to express my appreciation to Pascal and all the members of the Senior Executive Team for showing such inspirational leadership throughout a challenging year.

Finally, I would like to thank all my fellow Directors for the quality of their contributions and conscientiousness they brought to our discussions throughout an exceptionally busy 2014.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  Baxter 2004

A Message from the Chairman and CEO

Dear Baxter Stakeholder,

I have been in my role as Baxter chairman and CEO for just over a year and, in that time, I have focused on four key business priorities:
1.  Rebuilding our senior leadership team; 

2. Restoring investor credibility in the company;

3. Implementing the companywide restructuring program; and

4.  Re-engineering business and administrative processes. 

One could ask, quite legitimately, what these priorities have to do with sustainability. The answer is: everything. This focus is helping us considerably strengthen our business and places us in a much better position to make a positive impact socially and environmentally.

Enlightened companies are increasingly realizing the intercon- nection between the business enterprise and society at large. In the coming years, one thing that will differentiate great from good companies is a company’s participation in, and commitment to, broader societal issues ? in short, its success across the “triple bottom line” of economic, social and environmental performance.

Making Progress
It all starts with people, which is why the first priority has been to rebuild our senior leadership team. Making sure we have the right skill sets to lead us prosperously into the future is critical to sustainability. But as important as experience, education and intellect are, it also is essential that our leaders set the right exam- ple and model the right behaviors for the rest of the organization.

In addressing our second priority that focuses on restoring cred- ibility with investors, we are strengthening the quality of our earnings and our balance sheet, and driving greater discipline in capital allocation. We are focused on being realistic in our financial projections and then meeting those targets, quarter after quarter. We also are forthright and transparent when something goes awry. In July 2004, we announced plans to restate our financial results
for the years 2001 through 2003 and the first quarter of 2004 due to incorrect revenue recognition and inadequate provisions for bad debts in Brazil during that period. You can read more about this on our sustainability website as well. While the adjustments were not significant to our overall operations, we felt a restatement was the most appropriate action. We were transparent about the reasons and have taken remedial actions to ensure this type of situation does not occur again, in Brazil or elsewhere at Baxter.

The third priority has been to implement the companywide restructuring program to help us reduce cost structure, change how work is done and drive improvements in financial perfor- mance. While there was a significant impact to our global work- force, which we discuss in this sustainability summary report,
the restructuring will result in a stronger company. This provides us with the financial strength and flexibility to pursue new prod- ucts, new innovations, new businesses and markets going forward, and ultimately job creation.

We are making great progress on the fourth priority?re-engineering business processes. We have been very focused on improvements to our quality and regulatory systems for both new and existing products. In terms of new products, we are implementing a new product development process that will result in better product quality and products that better meet customer needs.
It includes an assessment called a Product Sustainability Review designed in part to minimize the environmental impact of our products throughout their entire lifecycle. We also are re-engineering processes in finance, R&D, and strategic planning.

These ongoing efforts do not immediately translate into improved financial results or accelerated growth, but they do lay the ground- work for future success. We acknowledge room for continued improvement in all these areas.

Making a Difference?Now and in the Future
Perhaps nowhere does our business come together more with our commitment to social responsibility than in the area of increasing access to healthcare. Given our business to provide high quality and effective healthcare options for individuals around the world, we can contribute to increasing access to care in ways that other companies cannot. For example, thousands of people around the world with end-stage renal disease currently go untreated due to inadequate healthcare resources, particularly in developing coun- tries. One possible answer for these patients is peritoneal dialysis (PD), an ambulatory therapy that, unlike more conventional hemodialysis, does not require an infrastructure of clinics, offering potential cost as well as quality-of-life benefits. Through efforts like our PD colleges in Asia, we are working to increase awareness and education about PD in these countries so patients can have access to this life-saving therapy.

Additionally, our sustainability report and website feature our efforts in providing emergency relief to victims of the tsunami in southern Asia in December 2004 and other product donations to meet critical healthcare needs worldwide. Together, Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation contributed approximately
$15 million worldwide to communities in need in 2004, much of it focused on increasing access to healthcare for children, the uninsured, the indigent and the elderly.

Increasing access to care is just one of the many ways we have a positive impact on our communities around the world. We are proud of the contributions we make and the recognition we have received for our efforts. For example, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency recognized Baxter as a Corporate Leader in its Performance Track Program. Our health and safety program had another record-best year in 2004. We were named to Business Ethics magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens list. In addition, we were named by Innovest Strategic Value Advisors to the Global
100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World.

While this recognition is rewarding, we will not become com- placent about other areas where we can do more. Except in the environment, health and safety area, where we set long-term goals and are currently in the process of finalizing 2010 goals, we need to do more in setting strategic priorities with measurable goals
for other areas of sustainability. We need to identify and focus on those areas where we can have the greatest impact and establish clear targets. We plan to address this over the next year, and I hope to report back next year with a strategic framework and specific priorities to guide our short- and long-term sustainability efforts.

Sustainability by its very definition implies continuous improve- ment. It’s about aspiring to be more and do more. This is the basis on which great companies are built.

I am proud to be associated with a company in which people are committed to having a positive impact on society at large. Together, we are making a difference through our foundation work and other charitable giving, representation and support of civic and cultural organizations in the communities we serve, business practices, education, environment, diversity, safety, governance, work/life balance and, of course, the products we make that save lives every day.

Our commitment to all stakeholders is to continue to make Baxter stronger and more competitive as a business while also doing all we can to make the world a better place for future generations.

Robert L. Parkinson, Jr.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Baxter 2005

FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO

As the first manufacturer of commercially prepared intravenous (IV) solutions, Baxter revolutionized  an industry. Today, as we celebrate our 75th anniversary, saving and sustaining lives remains our hallmark, and our mission. Breakthrough technologies in hemophilia treatment, kidney dialysis and other advances over the years have given rise to current research initiatives involving adult stem cell therapies, tissue- regeneration technologies, and vaccines for avian flu and other infectious diseases using our patented “vero cell” technology ? all aimed at providing better healthcare for people worldwide.

Our ability to continue providing life-saving products and therapies for future generations requires a strong foundation to invest in new product development, acquisitions and alliances, and longer-term research and development  (R&D) opportunities. We’ve made substantial progress over the last few years in strengthen- ing our business and our financial position, giving us the resources to accelerate R&D spending and other investments in our future. I believe  our success as a business and our ability to excel across all aspects of sustainability go hand in hand. The successful companies of the future will recognize that these elements do not operate independently, but rather, depend on each other, and must be integrated into the fabric of a company’s culture.

Clearly, innovation is key to our future success. In January 2006, we lost one of the great innovators in the history of healthcare when former Baxter Chairman and Chief Executive Officer William B. Graham passed away at the age of 94. Mr. Graham presided over Baxter’s most innovative period, during which the company introduced a steady stream of new products and therapies that changed the face of medi- cine. The reputation Baxter enjoys around the world to this day is largely due to Bill Graham’s leadership from the 1950s to the early 1980s. We aspire to continue his legacy.

Meeting Healthcare Challenges

We are privileged to work in an industry where the products we make save lives. At the same time, the healthcare industry is complex, highly regulated and defined by constantly changing technologies. These dynamics create unique challenges for companies like Baxter, and for doctors, patients, payers and others in a varied array of healthcare systems around the world. Key challenges and how we address them are highlighted below. You’ll have an opportunity to read more about these issues and Baxter’s response throughout this report.

Patient Safety. As a company with a long history of products and therapies that improve patient safety, we are working with customers and industry groups to reduce medication errors and promote other safe medical practices. In December 2005, Baxter was one of the first healthcare companies to participate in the Institute for Healthcare Improvement’s 100,000 Lives Campaign  ? an initiative to save 100,000 lives in U.S. hospitals over 18 months through adoption of best-safety practices.

Access to Care. The rising cost of healthcare and limited reimbursement makes expanding access to care a major challenge, particularly in developing countries. We invest significant time and resources in educat- ing elected officials around the world on the costs of different therapies, and work with them to facilitate 
reimbursement policies to fund needed healthcare in their countries. We also provide cost-effective products and therapies that make care more accessible in emerging markets like China, where our peritoneal dialysis (PD) products make home therapy possible for thousands of people with end-stage kidney disease who might otherwise go untreated.

Product Quality. One of our greatest challenges in 2005 and 2006 has been working with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to resolve quality issues related to our COLLEAGUE and SYNDEO infusion pumps. In June 2006, we reached agreement on a consent decree with the FDA outlining steps we must take to resume sales of new pumps in the United States. Baxter has a long tradition of quality excellence, and we continue to make this the highest priority in the company. With today’s healthcare technologies more complex than ever, we must continue to improve our quality systems to sustain the reputation we enjoy around the world, today and in the future.

Public Health. We are partnering with governments around the world to help protect citizens from poten- tial pandemics and bio-terrorist threats. In the last few years, Baxter has been involved, directly or indirectly, in the development and/or production of vaccines targeted at smallpox,  SARS, anthrax and avian flu, as well as therapeutic  products for nerve gas exposure.

Other Sustainability Highlights

We’ve made significant progress in our understanding of sustainability and its importance to our business. In part, this is reflected in a more robust report this year, with more in-depth reporting and several new sections, including content that covers Baxter’s broader economic  impacts as well as efforts to influence our suppliers’ sustainability performance.

I believe sustainability  reporting is not just a way to be transparent with our stakeholders, but also helps motivate organizational improvement. In my letter last year, I mentioned the need to set sustainability priorities with measurable goals in areas where we can have the greatest impact. In the next section of this report, you can read about where we are in this process.

Other highlights in the report include:

? New EHS goals: We describe our performance against our 1996-2005 environmental, health and safety (EHS) goals and introduce a new set of long-term goals. Last year also marked our third straight year of record safety performance. However, with several serious work-related accidents, we must continue to improve in this area.
? Update on diversity: Although we recognize the need to improve our employee diversity programs, we’ve increased the diversity of our senior management significantly over the last few years. Of our 16 corporate officers, seven are women or minorities, none of whom were in their positions three years ago. This reflects our commitment to a diversified work force, which must start at the top.
? Addressing market needs: We launched a new line of IV solution containers made of non-PVC (non- polyvinyl chloride) film, containing no latex and offering a DEHP-free [di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate-free] fluid pathway to patients. Coupled with our existing lines of non-PVC containers, we are now positioned to offer the broadest non-PVC, non-DEHP portfolio of any manufacturer.
? Community support: Total giving by Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation exceeded $35 million in 2005, including cash contributions, product donations and foundation grants. In a year marked by natural disasters, we donated more than $17 million worth of vital healthcare products to recipients in 51 countries, mostly through international disaster-relief and humanitarian-aid organization AmeriCares.

As we reflect on our 75th anniversary, we will continue to develop products and therapies to save and sus- tain lives for another 75-plus years. At the same time, we will be equally focused on sustaining our world in a socially, environmentally  and economically responsible manner. There is much to do on all these fronts. I look forward to reporting progress in the coming years.

Robert L. Parkinson, Jr.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

75 YEARS OF SA VING AND SUST AINING LIVES 

At Baxter, sustainability is part of our business, and our business success. Since our founding in 1931, we have provided the world with medical technologies and therapies that have saved and sustained countless lives. Today, as we celebrate our 75th anniversary, we are also focused on the social, environmental and economic impacts we have on our stakeholders as we work to meet the challenges of a complex and changing global healthcare environment.

Today, as we celebrate our 75th anniversary, saving and sustaining lives remains our hallmark, and our mission.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Baxter 2006

FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO

Today, being a great company requires more than sustained ?nancial success and technological innovation. It also requires a commitment to address  pressing social and environmental concerns.  The interdependence of these elements will only become greater  in the years ahead. The challenge, of course, is to effectively balance society’s current and future needs with the goals of the business. The companies that succeed in the 21st century will be those that can make this happen.

Making the business case for sustainability ? that sustainability is good business ? isn’t a novel concept. For example, most companies have come to realize that eliminating waste or saving energy is good for their bottom line as well as the environment. Leadership in sustainability is also instrumental in attracting top talent in an increasingly competitive global marketplace. For Baxter, increasing access to healthcare around the world also expands  the market for our products.

As a healthcare company, we already address  some of the world’s key sustainability challenges. Our products provide critical therapies for millions of people, saving and sustaining lives in more than 100 countries. Our work provides a heightened sense of purpose to what we do, which extends  across the breadth of issues that de?ne sustainability. Whether by producing breakthrough innovations to improve patient safety, responding to the critical healthcare needs of disaster victims, or protecting the health  of the planet through environmental stewardship, virtually all we do is about saving and sustaining lives ? a purpose that binds us as a company and as global citizens.

SUSTAINABILIT Y   HIGHLIGHTS 

Baxter had a number of accomplishments in the area of sustainability during the past year that you can read about in this report. These include:

? Forming an executive-level Sustainability Steering Committee to embed sustainability more deeply into our business and guide our global sustainability efforts. In June 2007, the committee de?ned a set of sustainability priorities to help focus our resources where we
can have the greatest impact. These priorities appear on page 5.

? Continuing to work with health authorities around the world in the development and production of a candidate H5N1 vaccine to protect citizens in the event of an avian ?u pandemic. We’re also working with the World Health Organization on global pandemic planning, including donations of our candidate vaccine to an international stockpile for developing countries.

? Making our corporate headquarters in Deer?eld, Illinois, a “carbon-neutral” facility. Our decision to offset 100 percent of the greenhouse gas emissions associated with electricity and natural gas use at our 105-acre complex with renewable, clean energy complements our
many other efforts to address  climate change. These range from improving  energy ef?ciency in our operations to advocating  progressive public policy at the local, state and national  level.

? Making signi?cant progress  against our long-term environment, health and safety goals, 
including a 9 percent reduction in water usage and a 5 percent reduction in energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions per unit of sales.
? Earning a “Green-e” label ? the ?rst in the medical industry ? for our new AVIVA intravenous solution container, the ?rst product of its kind made with 100 percent certi?ed renewable electricity.

? Exceeding  $35 million in product donations, cash contributions and grants from Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation to increase  access to healthcare, aid disaster victims and address  other critical needs in communities worldwide.

SUSTAINABILIT Y   CHALLENGES 

Last year, I outlined some of the sustainability challenges we face in the healthcare industry. Ensuring patient safety, expanding access to care, improving product quality and supporting public health all remain areas of focus for Baxter globally.

Two new areas of focus are primarily U.S.-based. One is increasing our support of the U.S. educational system, particularly in the area of math and science. We already support education worldwide through programs and grants from The Baxter International Foundation and volunteer efforts by our employees and facilities. But I believe we can play a larger role in supporting math and science education given our place in the scienti?c community.

The other area of focus is U.S. healthcare reform. Baxter operates in more than 100 countries and has extensive exposure to the bene?ts and drawbacks associated with various healthcare systems around the world. As the United States looks to reform its healthcare system, we can provide a valuable perspective to policymakers as they search for a solution to the problem of an estimated
47 million people without health insurance in the world’s most prosperous country.

Corporations today ? particularly global corporations ? have a greater role to play, and a greater responsibility, in ensuring a sustainable world. Sustainability and pro?tability are not mutually exclusive. On the contrary, they are closely intertwined and reinforcing. I’m proud of the achievements we have made so far, and look forward to reporting on future efforts in the years to come.


July 2007

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Every great company is built on its ability to recognize and embrace challenges, and develop effective solutions. A company’s approach to sustainability is no exception.

Today, being a great company requires more than sustained ?nancial success and technological innovation. It also requires a commitment to address pressing social and environmental concerns.  The interdependence of these elements will only become greater in the years ahead. The challenge, of course, is to effectively balance society’s current and future needs with the goals of the business. The companies that succeed in the 21st century will be those that can make this happen.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Baxter 2007

From the Chairman and CEO

As a recognized innovator and leader in healthcare, Baxter is responsible for  many medical breakthroughs that society takes for  granted today. The company has played a leading role
in the development of modern intravenous  (iV) therapy, hemophilia treatment, kidney dialysis and other life-saving therapies.

Baxter’s unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology sets us apart from others in the healthcare industry. i believe the critical natur of our work extends naturally to sustainability, where the goal is sustaining all life on  the planet

A Critical Challenge
We are privileged to work in an  industry where the work we do benefits so many. of course, what makes our business so rewarding also presents our greatest challenge: ensuring the safety and efficacy of our products, which are used millions of times a day by patients world- wide, each time to treat a critical, life-threatening condition.

When you’re in a business like ours, the stakes are high. Product quality is paramount. We are committed to the highest quality standards attainable to protect the health and safety
of patients wherever we do business. it’s a challenge and responsibility we accept as a global leader in healthcare.

In the Product responsibility section of this report, you will read about a situation that unfolded during the first half  of 2008 regarding heparin, a commonly used generic blood thinner that Baxter manufactures. The challenge for  us  is, how can we learn from this to prevent similar occurrences in the future? How can we provide better oversight of vendors, and of vendors to vendors, in a complex global supply chain? it is an  opportunity for  us
to improve our practices based on  our learnings and to share those learnings with industry.

Sustainability highlights
?   In 2007, we established nine sustainability priorities to focus our efforts in areas where Baxter can have the greatest impact. To provide strategic direction and help us  make progress in these areas, in 2008 we added long-term, measurable goals for each sustainability priority. We present these goals in this report and will continue to update you on our performance in the future.
?   The pace of innovation is accelerating at Baxter. in this report, Baxter chief scientific officer norbert Riedel, ph.d., discusses several promising areas. These include adult stem cell therapies for coronary and peripheral artery disease, alternatives to iV infusion for critical fluids and drugs, and an automated home dialysis system designed specifically for developing markets.
?   in 2007, we made progress toward our water usage, energy usage and greenhouse
gas emissions goals, although advancement toward our total waste reduction goal was slowed in part by production changes in our operations. our manufacturing facility in costa Rica  became the country’s first to be recognized as “carbon neutral,” joining other Baxter sites, including our corporate headquarters.
?   We extended our commitment to employee wellness by launching BeWell@Baxter, which offers an expansive array of programs and resources to help our 46,500 employees and their families worldwide stay well.  We recognize that a healthy, productive workforce is vital to our business.
?   Responding to stakeholder input, we have provided a more robust public policy section in this year’s report. it includes examples of how we are working with governments around the world to increase patient access to Baxter’s life-saving therapies, as well  as data regarding political contributions and lobbying expenses.
?   Finally, in the area of corporate giving, combined contributions by Baxter and The Baxter international Foundation ? the philanthropic arm of the company ? totaled nearly $55 million in 2007. This  includes more than $31 million in product donations to organizations in 53  countries for disaster relief and humanitarian aid.

Working toward Sustainable Future
No global corporation can afford not to act responsibly in today’s marketplace. Baxter’s approach to sustainability reflects the quality of our management, our people and our company culture. it also reflects the responsibility and accountability we must demonstrate to remain a global leader in our industry.

We also see sustainability as a way to attract and retain talent and make Baxter a rewarding place to work and develop. Ultimately, we believe our efforts in sustainability enhance shareholder value by making Baxter a more competitive company in an increasingly challenging business environment.

Our efforts to bring life-saving therapies to countries where many people still go untreated for conditions such as hemophilia, kidney disease and others are not altruistic. it’s our business. But the goal is similar to other elements of sustainability ? to save and sustain lives.  it is this higher purpose that binds everyone at Baxter together as a company and as global citizens.


May 2008

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Part of being a great company is being a responsible corporate citizen. At Baxter, we use the term “sustainability” to describe our long-term approach to balancing our business priorities with our social, economic and environmental responsibilities. These efforts align with and support the company’s higher purpose of saving and sustaining lives.

“When you’re in a business like ours, the stakes are high. Product quality is paramount. We are committed to the highest quality standards attainable to protect the health and safety of patients wherever we do business. It’s a challenge and responsibility we accept as a global leader in healthcare.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Baxter 2008

From the Chairman and CEO

Baxter plays a unique role in healthcare. Virtually every product we make is used to treat a critical, life-threatening condition. Our therapies are infused, injected or inhaled an estimated six million times a day, in more than 100 countries, to save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, end-stage kidney disease and other critical illnesses.

The sustainability challenges we face as a society are no less critical. Poverty, hunger, climate change, resource depletion, and lack of access to quality healthcare and education are just some of the threats to the well-being of future generations.
At Baxter, we are committed to applying the same dedication and spirit of innovation to improving the health of the planet as we do in developing new and better therapies for patients.

We define sustainability as a long-term approach to including our social, economic and environmental responsibilities among our business priorities. Baxter’s efforts in this area align with and support our mission of saving and sustaining lives.

This is the 10th year that Baxter has published a sustainability report. In all of our sustainability-related activities, whether it’s corporate giving, expanding access to healthcare, strengthening education or other areas you can read about in this report, we strive to be leaders, setting the pace for others to follow.

Establishing Sustainability as part of our culture 
Since joining Baxter as chairman and chief executive officer in 2004, I have been highly supportive of accelerating Baxter’s sustainability efforts, and I am proud of the progress we’ve made in making sustainability part of our culture.

Our formation in 2006 of an executive-level Sustainability Steering Committee to guide our global sustainability efforts was a significant step forward. It further institutionalized sustainability at Baxter and elevated accountability for sustainability across the company and to the highest levels of management.

The creation of nine sustainability priorities in 2007 was the next step in this process. These priorities, which are the focus of our print report this year, define what we consider to be the most important sustainability areas as a company and help us channel our resources where we can maximize our impact. Since then, we have added long-term 2015 goals for each priority to further clarify our expected progress. Advancement toward these targets is measured quarterly and reported to management.

Our sustainability priorities tie to larger societal goals. For Baxter, increasing access to healthcare, promoting diversity and inclusion, strengthening education and reducing our environmental impact are all areas where Baxter’s success contributes to a greater good while also benefiting us as a company. Acting with integrity, ensuring the health and safety of our employees, and developing partnerships with suppliers to foster a “greener” supply chain are equally important to industry leadership.

In early 2009, we added to our product stewardship priority an animal welfare goal to identify additional opportunities

to replace, reduce and refine (“3Rs”) the use of animal testing. While we have long-standing policies and practices designed to minimize animal testing, the addition of this goal reflects our continuing commitment to build on our history of conscientious action and innovation in this area.

Looking ahead, moving forward
Despite these accomplishments, sustainability is not about yesterday’s achievements. It is about creating a better world for tomorrow. We must continue to engage our customers, suppliers, employees, communities, other business sectors, and regional and national governments if we are truly to make the progress necessary to meet the challenges we face.

We are in the midst of one of the most difficult economic crises in our lifetimes. While no company, including Baxter, is immune to the issues affecting the global economy,
we remain committed to making a positive impact on the health and well-being of our local and global communities.

As a society, the biggest problem we face in tackling our most pressing sustainability challenges is simply the scope and enormity of the task. Successfully addressing these challenges requires the cooperative effort of governments, businesses, interest groups and individual citizens.

I believe corporations can play a lead role in making a difference. I encourage all stakeholders to join us in appreciating today’s sustainability challenges and contributing toward long-term solutions. Working together, we can create a better world for future generations.

Robert L. Parkinson, JR 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
June 2009

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Baxter 2009

From the Chairman and CEO

These are challenging times for healthcare. While the need for healthcare continues to grow, resources are limited. In many developing countries, people with hemophilia, end-stage kidney disease and other critical diseases still go untreated. In the United States, as many as
50 million people lack health insurance, which in early 2010 precipitated the most significant national healthcare reform legislation since the introduction of Medicare.

The new U.S. healthcare reform legislation will expand access to healthcare coverage for

U.S. citizens without insurance and seeks to reduce long-term healthcare costs. Other changes in our industry, coupled with an ongoing global economic crisis, also are contributing to a challenging environment for Baxter, encouraging us to intensify our focus on ways to become even more innovative, productive and efficient.

Sustainability, like any effective business strategy, requires a long-term view. Global climate change, natural resource depletion, political unrest, financial instability and insufficient access to quality healthcare and education are not problems that are solved overnight. Corporations have an important role to play, as do governments, non-governmental organizations and other groups, to help address these issues.

Some of these challenges, such as increasing access to healthcare and education, are especially relevant to Baxter. As a global healthcare company, we provide life-saving and life-sustaining products and therapies to developing markets, where healthcare needs are greatest. Much of our community involvement focuses on increasing access to health services for the poor and underserved. We’ve also taken a leadership role in supporting education, particularly in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM).

In many ways, sustainability is an extension of our business and our culture. Each of our sustainability priorities represents an opportunity to engage employees, contribute to a more sustainable world and benefit our business. Reducing natural resource use, for example, conserves precious resources for the future and decreases operational costs. Promoting an inclusive and diverse workplace creates a culture that enables employees to work together more effectively and helps us retain good people. Supporting STEM education today helps ensure that more children are equipped  to meet the scientific and technical challenges of tomorrow.

While we’re proud of the progress we continue to make on our sustainability priorities and goals, we are never satisfied. We’re working to accelerate our progress on a number of these challenges, as we clearly can do more.
I look forward to reporting further progress on our sustainability initiatives next year.

Robert L. Parkinson, JR 
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
JUNE 2010 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Baxter 2009 Sustainability Highlights

Received Carbon Reduction certification from the Carbon Trust for FLEXBUMIN [Albumin (Human)] ? the first and only albumin therapy in a flexible, plastic container, and the first and only medical product to receive this certification.

Decreased water usage by 9% in absolute terms and 29% indexed to revenue compared to 2005.

Decreased net greenhouse gas emissions from operations by 5% on an absolute basis and 26% indexed to revenue compared to 2005.

Realized environmental benefits at Baxter’s European headquarters in Zurich, Switzerland, which uses nearly 80% less energy than a typical office building of its size due to green-building design elements such as natural lighting, roof-top solar panels and other innovative features.

Delivered professional development to nearly 400 Chicago Public Schools teachers through Baxter’s Science@Work program, bringing biotechnology to more than 24,000 students and earning the company “Outstanding Partner” recognition.

Launched Global Supplier Sustainability Program, incorporating 20 green criteria into Baxter’s purchasing procedures.

Achieved a third straight year of improvement in reducing cases resulting in days lost due to workplace injuries.

Provided more than $52 million in foundation grants and company cash contributions and product donations to address critical needs globally, with a focus on increasing access to healthcare.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Baxter 2010

From the Chairman and CEO

At Baxter, sustainability is our approach to integrate our social, economic and environmental responsibilities among the company's business priorities. These efforts align with and support our mission of saving and sustaining lives. Each year, we reaffirm our commitment to sustainability through our annual sustainability report. And, each year, we strive to make our reporting more robust. 

As a global healthcare company, Baxter takes seriously the health of the planet. It is within this context that we look at our business and challenge ourselves as to how Baxter can utilize its assets, expertise and influence to best contribute to a more sustainable world. 

One thing we have done is align our business and sustainability strategies. Baxter's executive-level Sustainability Steering Committee, established in 2006, leads the company's efforts to integrate sustainability into our long-term strategic planning as well as our daily activities. Since its inception, this group has made significant progress in assessing our global sustainability challenges and opportunities, establishing and tracking progress against Baxter's sustainability priorities and goals, and elevating accountability for sustainability to the highest levels of management. 

Increasingly we are integrating sustainability considerations into our product development, from product planning throughout the product life cycle. We are implementing green principles into our manufacturing and other operations. We are using our global scope and industry leadership to help increase access to healthcare in developing countries, where people with life-threatening conditions are often untreated or undertreated. We adhere to the highest standards of ethics and compliance wherever we do business, embrace an inclusive culture and diverse workforce, and contribute in other ways to the health and welfare of people in need in communities worldwide.

Baxter operates in an increasingly challenging business environment, which has motivated us to intensify our efforts to become more innovative, productive and efficient. Sustained financial strength is critical to our ability to achieve both our business and sustainability goals, and to fund innovation, which is the real key to creating solutions for today's and tomorrow's challenges.

Baxter is in a unique position to make an impact due to the industry we are in, our strong global presence and reputation, the sustainability progress we have made and the experience we continue to gain. While we have made great strides in many areas of sustainability, we clearly need to improve in others. I look forward to reporting further progress
in next year's sustainability report.

Robert L. Parkinson, Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
June 2011

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Baxter 2011

Sustainability at Baxter
From the Chairman and CEO

Dear Stakeholders
At Baxter, sustainability means creating lasting social, environmental and economic  value by addressing the needs of our wide- ranging stakeholder base. Our goal is to realize today’s priorities and commitments in a way that ensures that our company and the many who depend on us can continue to thrive for generations to come.

We serve a broad array of constituencies in our mission to save and sustain lives: patients and healthcare professionals,  who rely on today’s products  and tomorrow’s innovations;  governments,  insurers and other institutions  and business partners that count on our ongoing collaboration; our employees, who seek a safe, inclusive workplace  and professional  growth opportunities; shareholders, who expect and deserve a return on their investment; and communities around the world, where we positively impact health while contributing to economic  growth. We succeed as a business by operating responsibly  in service of these diverse stakeholders  ?  which, in turn, ensures we can continue to advance our social, environmental and economic  priorities well into the future.

With the guidance of Baxter’s executive Sustainability Steering Committee  and the commitment of employees worldwide, we made meaningful progress on our nine sustainability  priorities in 2011. The global macroeconomic landscape continued  to pose serious challenges, yet it also helped inspire new ways to strengthen existing practices  and drive greater innovation. We implemented  novel facility-based energy initiatives and continued  to shift to less carbon-intensive modes of product  transport.  We completed five new green building projects, our most yet in a single year. We responded to natural disasters around the world with millions of dollars in product  donations  and cash. You can learn more about these efforts and many others throughout our comprehensive  online sustainability  report.

Our annual assessment of progress also serves as a reminder of how much more we can accomplish. While the path forward for the healthcare industry remains challenging, there is immense potential to foster innovation through Baxter’s sustainability  priorities as we advance the company’s mission on behalf of our patients. We see great opportunities to increase access to healthcare worldwide, further reduce our carbon footprint,  use natural resources more efficiently, help improve math and science education  in the communities we serve, and much more. Employees at all levels of the company are taking action, motivated  by a sense of responsibility and desire to make a difference.

Through our balanced approach and broad-based employee involvement, we are confident  that Baxter is well-positioned to make a positive impact for many years to come.

Robert L. Parkinson, Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
June 2012



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Baxter 2012

Dear Stakeholders,

Baxter’s aspirations as a healthcare company are tightly interwoven with our sustainability priorities. Just as our mission is to save and sustain lives, we are committed to helping our many global stakeholders thrive by creating lasting social, environmental and economic value in how we do business.

Baxter serves a broad array of constituencies: patients and healthcare professionals; governments and payors; investors; employees; and the communities where we do business. Our goal is to operate responsibly and effectively in service to all these groups as we advance the frontiers of patient health.

One of Baxter’s most critical objectives is exploring new ways to expand access to quality healthcare. Our efforts have led to a number of innovative public-private partnerships designed to help governments control costs while increasing patient access and improving health outcomes. In 2012 Baxter initiated many such partnerships, including a collaboration in Brazil that will meaningfully increase the availability of recombinant therapy for hemophilia patients while also creating local economic opportunity.

We also continue to integrate sustainability considerations across our operations. This includes reducing our carbon footprint at facilities worldwide through recent measures such as our use of biomass energy in India and the installation in Malta of Baxter’s largest solar photovoltaic system to date. Thanks to fresh thinking like this, I am pleased to report that we have achieved our 2015 goal of using 20% renewable power in our facilities three years early. 

Our sustainability efforts must continually reflect our business strategies in light of new opportunities, challenges and stakeholder needs. We are now in the process of establishing our sustainability goals for 2020, making sure our ongoing focus is in line with our ability to achieve the greatest impact.

I want to thank the many Baxter employees worldwide whose leadership and ingenuity are fostering today’s successes, and whose passion will spark continued progress. Thanks as well to the many stakeholders whose needs and priorities point the way to future innovation.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Baxter 2013

Dear Stakeholders,

Baxter’s vitality as a healthcare enterprise, and our ability to deliver on our commitments to our stakeholders, depends on our embrace of the new. This includes not only the scientific innovations that define our service to patients and healthcare providers; it also encompasses new ways of doing business that advance our goals as a publicly traded company and global corporate citizen.

In March 2014 we announced our intention to launch the BioScience portion of our business as a fully independent company. Charting a new course as two separate entities will place both organizations in an even stronger position to expand global patient access to current therapies, introduce new products addressing unmet needs and concentrate on other key priorities and objectives. 

I am confident that each company will build on our legacy of sustainable development grounded in responsible business practices to create lasting social, environmental and economic value. In fact, this year marks the 15th annual edition of Baxter’s sustainability report; and as you will see here, our commitment remains unwavering as we strive to benefit our broad stakeholder base. 

In 2013 Baxter decreased greenhouse gas emissions, energy use and water use. We increased patient access to market leading therapies in developing countries. We ensured our products are first on the scene in disaster-stricken communities. We helped advance STEM education to cultivate the future of scientific innovation. Yet for every milestone achieved, there are more opportunities to make a difference for the communities we serve. 

Our executive Sustainability Steering Committee is now assessing our strategy in light of our changing corporate structure and stakeholder expectations, and we are updating our goals to reflect our aspirations. 

As always, the needs of our stakeholders inspire us to ever greater levels of accomplishment. Every day our employees worldwide are focused on new opportunities to integrate our sustainability principles across our strategies and operations ? and I urge them to maintain the pace. Together we will continue making an impact for generations to come in pursuit of our mission to save and sustain lives.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Glaxosmithkline 2003

이 보고서에는  Chairman과 CEO뿐만 아니라 많은 사람들이 message를 썼어요. 혹시 모르니 확인 바랍니다. 워드파일에는 Chaiman과 CEO만 넣었습니다. 

Chairman of the Board
The GlaxoSmithKline Board of Directors has a clear responsibility to report to external stakeholders and make sure GlaxoSmithKline stays on track with addressing environment, health and safety concerns. Significant achievements this year in safety include development of targeted programmes to improve the safety of our sales force. For the environment, our programmes  have succeeded in producing continuous improvement and we are well on our way toward meeting most of our five-year targets.
As Chairman of the Board of Directors,  I strongly support the ten-year  EHS plan and the programmes that are helping us make progress on the path
to environmental sustainability.

Sir Christopher  Hogg


Chief Executive Officer
GlaxoSmithKline employees are passionate about their work and their contributions to helping people do more, feel better and live longer. Good environment, health and safety  (EHS) performance and consistent progress in improving our programmes can be driven by encouraging people to contribute with passion and recognising their good work.
Every year I sponsor the CEO’s EHS Excellence Awards recognising innovative, creative solutions to EHS issues and concerns. The awards motivate the winners as well as all employees to continue to work toward the goal of excellence in EHS and to be creative in finding solutions. The 2003 winners are highlighted throughout this publication.

The goals of EHS are very well aligned with business goals to improve quality and efficiency. Both focus on driving out waste by having more robust and efficient processes that consume  less natural resource, generate less waste and are good for the company’s bottom line.

This web site demonstrates GlaxoSmithKline’s continuing commitment to clear and transparent reporting of our environment, health and safety programmes and performance.

Dr. JP Garnier

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Glaxosmithkline 2004

CEO/Chairman Statement

Through our products GSK delivers clear benefits to patients around the world. Great products, however, are not the whole story -- society expects companies to act responsibly in their pursuit of success. If anything, the fact that our business is about human health makes it even more important that we operate to the highest standards.

Corporate responsibility is not just a job for selected people at GSK, it defines the way we do business. Our ten corporate responsibility principles set the standard for everyone, since responsible business is only a reality if it is practised by all employees at all times. In this report we show our progress against each principle.

We are reporting significant achievements in 2004. GSK is one of the leading pharmaceutical companies in the essential area of improving access to medicines in the developing world. For example, this year we tripled shipments of our preferentially-priced Combivir tablets to help alleviate HIV/AIDS in the developing world. Over 80% of these went to Africa, and we also granted five more voluntary licences to African companies to produce HIV treatments locally.

We are proud of our commitment to communities around the world.  Our total community investment in 2004 was ?328 million ($600 million). This includes our donation of 67 million tablets to support the elimination of lymphatic filariasis, a debilitating disease that threatens one billion people in the developing world.

Responsible business practices are also the key to a good reputation. In
2004, the pharmaceutical industry and GSK continued to come under public scrutiny on how medicines are developed, tested and marketed. To meet this challenge we must act with integrity and be open about our approach to these important issues. We took an important step this year with the launch of our Clinical Trial Register, providing public access to our product information.

We also want to make information on our corporate responsibility performance more widely available. The transition of the 2004 report to the internet, and the integration of our environmental, health and safety information, means this information is now accessible by more of our stakeholders.

We invite you to read this report for more information on all our corporate responsibility principles, and we welcome your comments and suggestions.

Sir Christopher Gent                                                                			Dr JP Garnier
Chairman                                                                         			         Chief Executive

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Glaxosmithkline 2005

CEO and Chairman’s letter

We accept this challenge. Solving problems such as healthcare provision in the developing world is not a job for one company alone, however we do have an important contribution to make. Our access to medicine programmes for HIV/AIDS and our work with the World Health Organization to eradicate Lymphatic  Filariasis (LF) are evidence of the efforts we are making. In 2005 we shipped 126 million preferentially priced Combivir and Epivir tablets to developing countries for treatment of HIV/AIDS and donated 136 million albendazole tablets for the prevention of LF. Through our public private partnerships we are developing the first pipeline of new tuberculosis treatments in 40 years and testing new vaccines and treatments against malaria, a disease which takes a devastating toll on the people of Africa.

Corporate responsibility encompasses how we address and manage issues that arise from our business activities. Good performance on corporate responsibility supports our business strategy because it protects and enhances our relationships and reputation with doctors, governments and patients.

GSK’s core business ? the research and production of medicines ? makes a valuable contribution to society. For many people our medicines are, quite literally, life-saving. But our satisfaction in what we do does not mean we can ignore issues associated with the research, manufacture and sale of medicines ? from the publication of research results and marketing practices of pharmaceutical  sales representatives,
to the use of animals in research and the environmental impacts of our manufacturing processes.

We are confident we have the right policies and programmes in place so that we operate to the highest standards. This report provides an update on the progress we have made against our ten corporate responsibility principles during 2005. Particular highlights include our new policies on the authorship of research articles, consumer advertising and patient advocacy, and our Clinical Trial Register that now contains results from over 2,000 GSK sponsored clinical trials.

We seek views from a wide range of stakeholders and respond to their suggestions where possible. This report contains new information in a number of areas in response to feedback we have received. We hope this report provides the information you are seeking about corporate responsibility at GSK and we welcome your feedback.

Sir Christopher Gent                    JP Garnier
Chairman                                      Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Corporate responsibility is fundamental to delivering our business goals. While the interests of shareholders remain paramount we also need to respond to stakeholder expectations by helping to address society’s healthcare challenges.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Glaxosmithkline 2006

Chairman and CEO’s letter

We believe that a healthcare company isn’t sustainable if it is only concerned about the 20 percent of the world’s population lucky enough to have the resources to pay for new treatments. Access to medicines is essential to our vision for GSK and our business strategy. Improving people’s health is what drives us and what makes talented scientists want to work here.

Our commitment to the poorest countries is integral to this. These countries may not represent a viable commercial market for some new medicines but there is still a medical need for people to have medicines they cannot afford. Yet pure philanthropy  is not the right solution either ? the needs are too great.

We look for new ways to tackle these problems.  GSK is involved in over ten public private partnership projects researching new medicines and vaccines for diseases disproportionately affecting developing countries, including HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB. We are also making key medicines and vaccines more accessible through discounted prices and have negotiated eight licences for third-party manufacturers to produce generic versions of our key HIV medicines.

As this Review shows, our efforts are starting to bear fruit. Preferential pricing and voluntary licences are helping to increase the supply of HIV/AIDS medicines to sub-Saharan Africa. In 2006, seven countries completed their five-year programmes to eliminate lymphatic filariasis using our albendazole treatment. We will continue donating our tablets until this disabling and incurable disease is completely  wiped out.

Vaccines are another exciting area. In 2006, 75 percent of all the vaccine doses we produced were sold at preferential prices for immunisation campaigns in the developing world. These will save millions  of lives. We expect to launch our vaccine for cervical cancer in 2007. This disease affects women in all countries but has the greatest impact in the developing world where there are few screening programmes to catch early cases.

There is no room for complacency ? much more effort is needed from all stakeholders to resolve the healthcare problems of developing countries. But we are proud of the contribution we are making.

We know that our efforts on access to medicines must be based on a solid foundation. Our industry is high profile and often the subject of criticism. Good medicines can make a big difference to quality and length of life for all of us and it is rightly expected that we should meet the highest standards of integrity in all aspects of our work.

This Review gives a snapshot of our approach to embedding an ethical culture across GSK. This includes applying the highest standards of behaviour and transparency in our R&D and promotion of medicines, treating our people well, and minimising the impact of our business on the environment. We also need to play our part in tackling major global issues such as climate  change.

We value the input of our stakeholders and would welcome your views on this Review or any aspects of corporate responsibility at GSK.

Sir Christopher  Gent
Chairman

JP Garnier
Chief Executive Officer

---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information

Every day we are involved in a race to find new medicines and vaccines to address unmet medical needs; to improve access to these new medicines for all patients regardless of their financial circumstances; and to meet the expectations of our many stakeholders. It’s a race for the human race.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Glaxosmithkline 2007

Letter from CEO

Our sustained investment in R&D continued to pay off with the launch of new products that will make a real difference to global health. Our vaccine Cervarix will help to protect women worldwide against cervical cancer. We have already submitted the new vaccine for World Health Organization pre-qualification ? meaning it can be used in mass vaccination programmes across the developing world where 85 per cent of cervical cancer deaths occur. Tykerb, our new breast cancer treatment holds out new hope for women affected by one of the most aggressive forms of this disease. 
There was also exciting news from Phase II trials of our candidate malaria vaccine for African children. Our commitment to malaria is long-standing ? scientists in GSK and our legacy companies have been working on this vaccine for over 20 years. If results continue to be successful we may see the submission to regulatory authorities of the world’s first malaria vaccine for children as early as 2011. We will seek to ensure this vaccine is affordable and available to all who need it.
We are celebrating ten years of our involvement in the Global Alliance to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis and 15 years of GSK’s Positive Action programme to help people living with HIV/AIDS. 
Both these programmes have had an enormous beneficial impact on some of the world’s most disadvantaged communities. Several countries have now completed their five year LF elimination plans, freeing future generations from the threat of this disfiguring and disabling disease. 
Our commitment to environmental issues was strengthened with the launch of a new climate change strategy. We have committed to reducing our climate change impact and energy use by 20 per cent per unit of sales by 2010 and by 45 per cent by 2015. A lot of work is already underway to make sure we meet these challenging new targets. 
Concerns about Avandia proved to be one of the year’s big challenges. We have responded to these concerns by examining the data in their entirety, and working collaboratively with regulators and other stakeholders. We strongly defend our product because we believe it is important that Avandiais available to support effective treatment of type 2 diabetes.
The company restructuring programme announced in 2007 will help us remain a competitive and sustainable business. These changes are necessary but have inevitably required us to reduce employee numbers. We aim to treat our employees with dignity and respect and offer a wide range of support for all affected staff.
It is the way we respond to challenges like these that demonstrates the importance of the strong value system on which our business is based. Performance with integrity is integral to GSK and is the foundation of our past and future successes. 
I am proud of what GSK has achieved in my time as Chief Executive and confident that our company will continue to make a major contribution to meeting global healthcare needs now and well into the future.

JP Garnier

---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information

Despite advances in healthcare, society still faces huge unmet medical needs. R&D into 
new vaccines and treatments is essential to benefit patients, families and communities 
worldwide. This search is at the core of our business and the central responsibility issue 
for GSK. I am pleased at the progress we made in 2007. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Glaxosmithkline 2008

Message from the CEO
A new mindset
Welcome to GSK’s Corporate Responsibility report which provides information on our activity and performance during 2008.

We want to be a company that is forward looking, innovative and willing to try new approaches and partnerships; a company that is constantly looking for new and sustainable ways to increase access to our medicines and vaccines, especially for those least able to pay.

We have made significant progress in helping to address global healthcare challenges. For example, over
the past ten years we have donated over one billion tablets to the programme to eliminate lymphatic filariasis, a debilitating tropical disease and we are doubling manufacturing capacity to 600 million tablets a year. Our commitment to preferential pricing means we offer our AIDS and malaria medicines at not-for-profit prices in the world’s poorest countries. We also supply our vaccines to organisations such as GAVI and UNICEF at preferential prices, typically 10-20 per cent of the prices in developed countries.

But for every success story, there are examples of where we could do more. As I review our performance, I believe it is time for a new mindset in our industry and a new contract with society. In these difficult economic times it is a challenge to think beyond short-term performance. But we must look to the long-term and not be distracted by our own economic problems when the needs of the developing world remain just as pressing.

To begin with, there are four areas where we can show we are going to do things differently.

First, we are exploring a more flexible approach to intellectual property rights to incentivise much needed research into medicines for 16 neglected tropical diseases where there is a severe lack of research. One option is a Least Developed Country (LDC) ‘patent pool’ in to which we would put our relevant small molecule compounds, process patents or other knowledge, and which would allow others access to develop and produce new products.

Secondly, on 1 April 2009 we will reduce our prices for patented medicines in the 50 poorest countries in the world, the LDCs, so they are no higher than 25 per cent of the developed world price. Where possible we will reduce our prices further while ensuring we cover our manufacturing costs so this offer is sustainable. We also recognise the challenge in middle-income countries where there is a wide disparity in incomes and ability to pay. Here our intention is to work on a case-by-case basis recognising that there is no ‘one size fits all’ solution to improving access to medicines in these countries.

Thirdly, we will seek out partnerships and open the doors of our developing world research centre in Spain. We already know what partnership can achieve ? for example, we successfully trialled a malaria vaccine candidate in partnership with the PATH’s Malaria Vaccine Initiative and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. If we extend this approach the benefits will be huge.

Fourthly, working with partners such as NGOs, we will reinvest 20 per cent of the profit we make from selling medicines in LDCs to support the strengthening of healthcare infrastructure in these countries. Our sales in LDCs are relatively low so this profit is limited; initially this funding will amount to ?1 to ?2 million annually. But by our action we hope to send a signal to all multi-national companies operating in LDCs to join us and make a meaningful change in these countries. In all developing countries we must transform GSK into a local company addressing local healthcare needs. Our Brazilian business is leading the way ? supplying vaccines and sharing technical expertise to help build local capacity.

We will not forget that significant healthcare challenges exist in developed countries too. We must work in partnership to create a virtuous circle, where industry gets rewarded for demonstrating genuine innovation, healthcare payers get value-for-money because our medicines save them from high-cost healthcare interventions, and more patients get the medicines they need.

Of course, access to medicines is not the only issue that counts. We want GSK to be recognised around the world - by all stakeholders - as a company with the highest ethical standards.

We made good progress in 2008. We committed to stopping all corporate political contributions from 2009. Our decision to report more fully on our funding for medical education, patient groups and payments to physicians, will increase transparency and provide reassurance to stakeholders. Reflecting our commitment to animal welfare, we took a voluntary decision to end research in great apes, the highest-order of animals next to humans.

It is time for a new mindset in our industry and a new contract with society. With the support of other pharmaceutical companies and partners outside the industry, I believe significant improvements in human health can really be achieved.

Andrew Witty, CEO

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Glaxosmithkline 2009

Message from the CEO
GSK is changing

Welcome to GSK’s 2009 Corporate Responsibility Report which provides information on our activities during
2009.

Our ambition for GSK is to create a values-based business that our employees, investors and wider society can be proud of and can rely on. We want to run our business to the highest ethical standards, adapting and changing so we are more responsive to the needs of society.

Since I became CEO of GSK, we have been focusing on changing our business to improve our financial performance through diversifying our sales growth and improving returns from the investment we make in R&D. And we know that part of being a successful and sustainable business is fulfilling our social responsibilities, making our company more responsive, more flexible and more open to society’s expectations.

We are making progress on many areas such as improving access to our medicines, enhancing research opportunities for neglected tropical diseases, raising the ethical standards for conducting our research and business activities, and being more open and transparent in the way we run our business. Making the changes needed to reach our ambitious energy and climate change targets is proving to be a challenge and we are stepping up our efforts to achieve these.

Access to medicines and encouraging R&D into neglected tropical diseases

We believe access to medicines is the defining issue for our industry and during 2009 we took some significant steps forward. We reduced the price of our patented medicines in the world’s poorest countries to no more that 25 per cent of the UK price. The resulting increase in sales volumes suggests that more patients are now accessing these medicines. We are also reinvesting 20 per cent of the profits from selling medicines in these markets in projects that will strengthen healthcare infrastructure in Least Developed Countries.

In middle income countries we are developing a more flexible approach to pricing that better reflects the
ability to pay. Pilot studies in 2009 showed promising improvements in access to our products, and our more flexible approach to pricing is being extended during 2010.

We also have a unique opportunity with our candidate malaria vaccine which is being developed in collaboration with the PATH Malaria Vaccine Initiative, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and African research organisations. The vaccine is still in development, however we are already thinking about access. We want to set a price which is sustainable but which is also as low as possible. So in January 2010 I announced that we will set a price that covers our costs and makes a small return which we will reinvest in R&D for the next generation of malaria vaccines, or for other vaccines for diseases of the developing world.

Tackling the acute need for more medicines to treat neglected tropical diseases needs innovative approaches and partnerships. We have set out our open innovation agenda where we will launch more new collaborations to share our intellectual property and know-how, and create broad-based partnerships to give researchers access to our expertise, processes, facilities and infrastructure. For example, we are publishing information on more than 13,500 compounds which have shown activity against the malaria parasite. We will not seek any rights over these compounds if researchers discover a new treatment for malaria.

Another important aspect to open innovation is the open lab we are creating at our Tres Cantos R&D Campus dedicated to research for combating diseases of the developing world. At the open lab researchers from across the world, especially from developing countries, will be able to work with GSK on their projects, accessing our expertise, know-how, processes and industrial scale. To help fund these external partnerships
GSK has set up a not-for-profit foundation with an initial investment of ?5 million.

Transparency
Our social responsibilities go beyond enhancing our R&D efforts and improving access to our medicines and vaccines. I believe that being open and transparent about how we do business will help us to build trust with our stakeholders.

We continue to publish the results of all our clinical studies on our Clinical Study Register and now include the names of the principal clinical investigators and the institutions where they work. We will also seek publication of the results of all clinical studies as full scientific papers in peer reviewed journals. We believe we are the only company to make this commitment. If, as is sometimes the case, a journal does not want to publish the paper, we will include additional information to help interpretation of the study results on our Clinical Study Register.

We are also publishing more information on our payments to healthcare professionals. In 2009 we started publishing the speaking and consulting fees paid to US healthcare professionals and plans are in place to extend this to other countries. We have also set new standards for funding medical education in the US to ensure that we support programmes that bring the greatest improvements to patient health.

Our commitment
At GSK, we have a real opportunity to make a difference to patients and to society. We know there is always more we can do and we are committed to making changes to our business to achieve this. I believe we have made good progress in 2009 and I am excited by the opportunities to evolve GSK’s business. I look forward
to updating you on our future progress.

Andrew Witty
Chief Executive Officer

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Glaxosmithkline 2010

Message from our  CEO

We are transforming GSK into a more competitive and efficient company. A company built on strong values and a deep commitment to excellence ? a company that our employees, our customers and the societies we work in can be proud of.


Continuing to run our business in a responsible way is central to our transformation. We don’t have a separate
’responsible business strategy’ because our commitment to responsible, values-based business underlies everything we do. This means being led by our values and principles, being transparent about how we work, responding to the needs of our stakeholders especially by putting patients first in our decision-making, being thoughtful in how we communicate and not compromising our ethical standards. When we do this we generate real value for patients and for our business.

We are building on our strong culture in which all our decisions are guided by our values:

●     Commit to transparency
●     Show respect for people
●     Always demonstrate the highest integrity in our conduct
●     Be patient focused


Access to medicines

We’re committed to increasing access to our medicines for patients, irrespective of where they live and their ability to pay. In 2010 we have further embedded a range of flexible pricing models to deliver our medicines and vaccines to as many of the people who need them as possible. Not only is this the right thing to do, it will also contribute to our business success. For example, we’ve capped the price of our patented medicines in Least Developed Countries at no more than 25% of what we charge in developed countries, and we’re introducing more flexible pricing in developing countries.

This is challenging and the work is at an early stage, however the results of some of our initiatives so far are promising, indicating that price reductions are extending access to more patients and providing a sustainable return to GSK.

This year we also created a specific operating unit dedicated to increasing access to medicines in developing countries. Its success will be judged not on profits but on its contribution to increasing access to our medicines.

I believe the approach we are taking will define GSK as a company that healthcare providers and patients can trust. Combined with our commitment to quality and ethical business practices, this will help us to stand out as a business that is truly committed to patients.


Neglected tropical diseases

We continue with our significant commitment to work on neglected tropical diseases and our R&D partnerships in this area are progressing well. GSK’s RTS,S malaria vaccine candidate is in phase III trials and, if all goes well, this will be the first ever vaccine against malaria, with the potential to save the lives of millions of children in Africa. We have committed to price RTS,S responsibly and will seek to ensure that price will not be a barrier to access. We will set a price which covers our costs and generates a small return of around 5% which we will reinvest in the development of 
next generation malaria vaccines or for other products for diseases of the developing world.

We also announced in 2010 that we will donate enough of our albendazole medicine to protect all school-aged children in Africa against intestinal worms. Intestinal worms cause more ill health in school-aged children than any other infection, so this will have a major positive health impact. When added to the albendazole we already donate to the Global Alliance to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis, it means we will be donating about one billion tablets a year for five years ? a very significant commitment.


Environmental sustainability

We have strengthened our commitment to the environment too, setting new ambitious targets. Our goal is to reduce
the environmental impact of our value chain, from raw materials to product disposal, becoming carbon neutral by 2050. We have already achieved a reduction of nearly 11% in greenhouse gas emissions since 2006 which, although less than we had hoped, gives us a good foundation to build on in the coming years. We have also reduced the amount of water we use by 16% since 2006, exceeding our 2% annual reduction target.


Operating with integrity

We are continuing to work towards resolving a number of long-standing legal matters. In light of these cases we have fundamentally changed our procedures for compliance, marketing and selling in the US. We now have far-reaching policies and procedures in place to guard against inappropriate promotion to healthcare professionals, and to seek to ensure that if breaches of regulations do occur they are reported to the US government.

To truly embed our values we need to be willing to change how we work, to invest resources and to demonstrate leadership. The changes we are making this year to how we reward our US sales teams are just one example of how we are doing this. Historically, sales teams were rewarded according to the volume of prescriptions in their area, a practice common across the industry. Our new incentive system will assess sales representatives on their scientific and business knowledge, feedback from customers in their region, and the overall performance of their business unit.

By focusing on providing the information and support our customers want, rather than generating the next prescription, we will be acting in the best interests of patients. The more we do this, the more healthcare practitioners will see us as a true partner in delivering the best possible care for their patients.

In my view, it is strong values that differentiate great companies from mediocre ones. By living our values we will achieve results that are good for society and good for GSK. As this Report demonstrates, we continue to make important and exciting changes and I look forward to updating you on further progress next year.

Andrew Witty
Chief Executive Officer

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Glaxosmithkline 2011

From our Chairman

This year we have made good progress. In my role as Chairman of both the Board and the Corporate Responsibility Committee, I am acutely aware  of the pressures and challenges faced by the company and I receive regular reports of how these are being addressed.

During the year I was particularly pleased to see further commitments made to improve global access to our medicines, including agreements to supply large quantities of our vaccines to protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis and pneumococcal diseases such as pneumonia and meningitis to the poorest countries of the world at fractions of western prices. The company has also made substantive progress in other areas such as environmental sustainability and in supporting the communities in
which we operate.

Much of this progress is due  to the leadership of
Sir Andrew and the executive team. The Board will continue to support and constructively challenge their thinking and the actions they take to operate a responsible values-based business.



Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Supplementary Information 

GSK has always  believed that operating in a responsible and ethical way is essential for the success of its business. During 2011 we continued to examine our policies and operations to ensure that our approach to corporate responsibility supports the delivery of our business strategy and is consistent with our values.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From our CEO

Our record in 2011  demonstrates that we are succeeding,
through increased sales and returns to our shareholders and significant progress in our research and development.

We remain committed to operating with transparency and responsibility. During the year we made multiple advances on our agenda to ensure that our behaviour and our actions meet or even exceed the expectations of society. Much of this is reflected in this report which
is structured around four  areas: Health for all, Our people and communities, Our behaviour and Our planet.

One of our key priorities is to continue to align our  commercial success  with forming new partnerships
to tackle the healthcare needs of people in developing countries. This is particularly pertinent for vaccines,
and tackling pneumococcal disease is a great example of how these partnerships make a difference. Early in 2011, GSK began supplying pneumococcal vaccines to Kenya through an innovative financing mechanism known
as the Advance Market Commitment. This is the largest fund ever designed for a single vaccine and has dramatically increased sustainable access to this vaccine for babies across  Africa.

This success  was built upon mid-year when we announced a new pricing structure for our vaccine against diarrhoeal disease. We offered the GAVI Alliance our vaccine at
a fraction of the cost of developed western markets. Millions of children living in the world’s poorest countries are now set to receive it, which will save countless lives
in the future. Importantly, this offer is sustainable over  the long term because we are recouping the cost of goods and manufacture.
2011  also demonstrated that we are making significant
progress to improve returns and productivity in R&D. We are seeing this productivity translate into real filings and approvals, with three medicines approved in 2011  and four  more ready to file in 2012. These include our  new MEK inhibitor for melanoma and a new four-valent flu vaccine.

We are also on the cusp of creating the world’s first malaria vaccine. I have seen first-hand the devastating impact that this disease has on Africa, having lived there for several years in the 1990s. In October 2011, late-stage trials confirmed the promise we have seen so far, showing that the vaccine reduces the risk of malaria by half in African children aged 5-17 months. We also reiterated
our commitment to price  the vaccine at a level that covers  costs and generates a small return of around 5% that will be ploughed back into research for the next generation of malaria medicines and vaccines.

During the year we also reached an agreement in principle with the US Government to resolve some long-standing legal issues around our sales and marketing practices for
a settlement of $3 billion. I know this was difficult, but is
a necessary step towards resolving multiple, long-standing matters which do not reflect the company that we are today.

As part of an ongoing strategy, we continue to fundamentally change our procedures for compliance, marketing and selling, particularly in the USA.
This will ensure that we operate with high standards of integrity and that we conduct our business openly and transparently. We will continue to innovate and to respond to the expectations of our stakeholders, and our new compensation system that rewards sales representatives in the USA on quality of service rather than sales volumes is one example.

We also made progress on implementing our  environmental strategy which has been revised to set ambitious goals for our entire value chain ? from raw materials to product disposal. We need to work  in ways that enable business growth while protecting the natural resources for the future. For example, almost 40% of our carbon footprint derives from propellants when patients use our inhalers, and eliminating CFC gases from our  products has substantially reduced inhaler emissions ? from 24 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents in 1998  to less than 5,000 tonnes today.

None of this would be possible without the efforts of all of our employees. Investing in our people and communities underpins the long-term sustainability of our business, creating the right internal and external conditions to support our strategy. As a company, we are mindful of the potential pressures our employees face given the current global, political and economic environment. Despite these challenges, we remain committed to offering all of our  employees a range of learning opportunities and tailored development and volunteering programmes. The PULSE programme, for example, gives employees the chance to join a non-profit or non-governmental organisation for
a three- or six-month placement. There were 80 PULSE volunteers in 2011, up from 58 in 2010. I am delighted that nearly 200 employees from 26 countries have served as PULSE volunteers since the scheme began in 2009.

These changes and others we have made right across  our  business are laying the foundations for our future success. We have come a long way but we have by no means achieved everything we aspire to. We will continue to review our plans and commitments across  each of the four  areas,  looking to establish further long-term goals and targets which will support meaningful measurement and demonstrate our commitment to responsible, values-based business. We will continue to be restless, to challenge ourselves and to ask what more we can do.



Sir Andrew Witty
Chief Executive Officer

------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Supplementary Information 

Three-and-a-half years ago, we set out to fundamentally change GSK to create a different type of company, delivering sustainable financial performance and providing shared value to patients, consumers and governments.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- GlaxoSmithKline 2012

CEO Interview instead of CEO Message

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- GlaxoSmithKline 2013

As a global healthcare company, GSK can play an important role in meeting societal challenges. In 2013, we continued to develop innovative life-saving drugs and work with partners to get medicines to the people that need them most.

Over the past six years we have been making fundamental changes to deliver innovation and access to our products for patients and customers, and improved sustainable financial performance for our shareholders.

2013 was the most productive period of R&D output in the company’s history. Of the six major new medicine files we profiled at the start of 2013, five were approved and we are expecting regulatory decisions for the remaining asset in this group in the first half of 2014. In addition, we launched our new injectable quadrivalent flu vaccine in the USA. Together, these new drugs offer patients a range of new treatment options and represent substantial opportunities for business growth. 

We continue to take action to reform our business model to meet the expectations of society and deliver our mission, in line with our values.

In 2013, we made new commitments to increase transparency of our clinical research by announcing our support for the AllTrials campaign and becoming the first pharmaceutical company to commit to publishing the detailed clinical study reports for all of our medicines. In May, we were the first in our industry to launch an online system enabling researchers to request access to anonymised patient-level data from our clinical trials. I am pleased that some other companies have now also adopted this approach.

We also announced plans to evolve the way we sell and market products to healthcare professionals, to further align our activities with the interests of patients and remove even the perception of conflict of interest. Specifically, we plan to stop direct payments to healthcare professionals for speaking engagements and for attendance at medical conferences, and extend our US ‘Patient First’ programme globally, to decouple sales team remuneration from scrip generation.

We continue to expand access to our medicines to people living in the developing world. During 2013, we signed a ground-breaking five-year partnership with Save the Children, to combine the resources and capabilities of our two organisations to help save the lives of one million children living in the poorest countries in Africa. 

In 2013, we donated our four billionth tablet of albendazole to treat intestinal worms and lymphatic filariasis ? part of our long-term commitment to tackle neglected tropical diseases ? and delivered 862 million vaccine doses worldwide. We also strengthened our global initiatives to tackle non-communicable diseases such as cancer, diabetes, respiratory and heart disease. 

I am also delighted we achieved a significant milestone for our malaria vaccine candidate which demonstrated that it could potentially halve the number of malaria cases in young children. This vaccine has the potential to save hundreds of thousands of childrens’ lives and we plan to file for approval during 2014. We are committed to making it available at a not-for-profit price. 

There is no higher priority for me than the values-based conduct of our employees. In the past few years, we have focused on bringing to life our values and being thoughtful about what they really mean at a human level.

It is because of my strong belief in our company’s values that the allegations made in China about the behaviour of some individuals were so disappointing. The investigation into this matter by the authorities in China continues and we are cooperating fully. As a company, we are committed to learning the lessons and taking all necessary action in relation to the outcome of this investigation.

Our continued commitment to transparency was also evident in our efforts to disclose and address our environmental impacts. We are the only healthcare company listed in both the CDP’s Disclosure Leadership Index and its Performance Leadership Index in 2013, for our clear reporting and performance on climate impacts.

My job as CEO is to deliver a healthy company, and that is only possible with healthy employees. Our ground breaking Partnership for Prevention initiative will give benefits-eligible employees and their families equal access to preventive and basic healthcare benefits wherever they are based. 

In 2014, we will continue to challenge our business model at every level, to ensure we are responding to the needs of patients and meeting the wider expectations of society.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- GlaxoSmithKline 2014

In 2014, despite challenges resulting from our operating environment, we made sustained progress against both the company’s strategic priorities and our commitment to operate responsibly.

I was particularly proud of the progress on our commitments to improve access to medicines this year. We saw the world’s first malaria vaccine come another step closer when we submitted our RTS,S candidate for regulatory approval. We have committed that we will make the vaccine available at a not for profit price for those who need it. 

We also saw progress on addressing affordability barriers to access to healthcare. In 2014, we extended our tiered pricing approach to prescription medicines, asking countries to pay based on their national income. In early 2015, we also committed to freeze vaccine prices for GAVI graduating countries for ten years. 

In addition we committed to invest ?130 million in Africa over the next five years, aiming to provide a portfolio of relevant products, develop innovative pricing strategies, support African R&D expertise and increase local manufacturing capacity and capability. 

2014 saw a critical public health emergency with the outbreak of Ebola in West Africa, which demanded an urgent response. As well as providing humanitarian support to affected regions, we accelerated the development of our candidate vaccine for Ebola at an unprecedented rate, with trials now underway. 

We continue to look at ways to transform our commercial model. A new approach to compensation for sales representatives has now been rolled out worldwide. These changes build on the reforms we started in the USA more than two years ago and I was pleased to see our most recent Healthcare Practitioner customer satisfaction research showing that GSK now ranks first in the USA among our peer group for the value we bring to their work. Adding to this, by 2016, we will have fully implemented our commitment to stop paying doctors to speak on our behalf and instead deliver information to them through a new multi-channel system. 

We believe these changes are not only the right thing to do, but that they will also be a competitive advantage. They follow our initiatives on clinical trial data transparency.

We expect all our people to put our values at the heart of their decisions and that their work meets or exceeds the expectations of society. That’s why the issues we saw in China last year have been wholly disappointing and we have taken significant steps to rectify the issues identified in our Chinese business, to apply appropriate lessons to our operations elsewhere and to strengthen our monitoring of ethical conduct. Given the complexity of our sector and the challenges of working in global healthcare, we will continue to face risks. However, we continue to believe that with robust systems in place our presence in these markets can improve access to medicine and broader healthcare.

Looking at other priority areas, we made good progress on employee gender diversity ? slightly increasing the proportion of women in management ? from 41% to 42% ? and are on track with the roll-out of our preventative healthcare programme for our employees and their families, reaching 15 countries so far. 

We have also set ambitious targets on carbon, water and waste. We continue to face the challenge of reducing our carbon footprint across the value chain while sales of our propellant based inhalers, our product with the biggest carbon footprint, continue to grow. However, we have met our operational water use target a year early, cutting use by 20% since 2010. 

Finally, it is through the efforts of many that we look to fulfil our commitment to operate responsibly. I’d like to thank all our employees and partners ? their continued support has helped us both address challenges and deliver substantial achievements this year.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Norvatis 2013

Dear Shareholder,

Novartis achieved another strong operating result in 2013 and reinforced its leadership position as a diversified global healthcare company. With the launch of innovative therapies, a clear focus on growth markets, and productivity-oriented cost control, we increased sales and net income at constant currency exchange rates. 

This success was due primarily to the continued dynamic development of our largest division, Pharmaceuticals, which has one of the industry’s most robust product portfolios. Our eye care division, Alcon, and our generics business, Sandoz, also contributed to the positive result. With the market launch of state-of-the-art eye surgery systems, Alcon strengthened its leading position in the fast-growing area of cataract operations, while Sandoz gained further market share amid accelerated demand for sophisticated biosimilars. 

The smaller businesses ? Vaccines and Diagnostics, and Consumer Health ? also improved their operations and created a solid basis for their activities following a series of difficult quarters. Our goal is to strengthen Novartis as a diversified healthcare company in its individual fields of business and as a whole. Given our continuous effort to optimize our businesses, we divested our blood transfusion diagnostics unit in January 2014 for USD 1.7 billion.

As a science-based healthcare company dedicated to serving the interests of patients, Novartis strives for a broad and competitive product portfolio and strong positioning in long-term growth markets. To this end, we are continuing to pursue our long-standing and proven diversification strategy, which ? alongside our focus on innovation ? includes the development of affordable and nonpatented medicines.

Research and development of innovative and highly effective drugs that fulfill unmet patient needs remains central to our strategy and fundamental to our future success. With more than 6 000 scientists in our global research organization, Novartis aims to provide measurable benefits for patients and for society. 

Due to the ongoing demographic change ? which affects developing and emerging countries and coincides with growing urbanization and high environmental pollution ? chronic and age-related disorders such as eye diseases, diabetes, cardiovascular conditions, and cancer are rising. This will continue to put a great strain on public health, the economy and the labor market.

In this context, we are systematically working on innovative compounds that are aimed at enhancing treatment results and increasing patient satisfaction. In the past year, we have achieved significant progress to this end with the introduction of medicines in the areas of oncology and difficult-to-treat lung diseases that enabled Novartis to broaden its product portfolio.

Novartis can only operate successfully if the company acts as a trustworthy, cooperative and transparent partner. With this in mind, we are continuously reviewing our corporate governance principles and compensation systems ? and adapting them regularly in consultation with investors and other stakeholder groups, while aspiring to the leading industry standards. We have simplified our corporate governance structure to free up resources, reduce bureaucratic hurdles, cut costs, and accelerate decision-making. We have empowered management to make decisions that were previously made by the Chairman’s Committee, which has been disbanded. These changes have also led to adjustments to the compensation system of the Board of Directors. Finally, the Board of Directors has set up a Research and Development Committee that is designed to oversee our research and development strategy and organization.

To help establish efficient healthcare systems amid rapidly evolving patient needs, Novartis also intends to assume greater social responsibility. We are seeking to enhance dialogue and collaboration with governments and health organizations to expedite the development of more comprehensive, integrated and cost-effective medical services. The creation and production of nonpatented therapies and generics remain essential to this goal, as millions of people in developing and emerging countries have no sustainable access to safe and effective medical care and rely ? more than ever ? on affordable, yet high-quality medicines.

Moreover, we strive to accelerate specifically-designed social business programs in fast-growing regions of Asia, Africa and Latin America that enable us to benefit from economic growth, while helping to build a sustainable base for regional healthcare systems. We are also continuing our fight against malaria and we delivered more than 600 million Coartem and Coartem Dispersible treatments without profit since 2001.

The strategic positioning of Novartis and the performance of our approximately 136,000 associates give us confidence about our medium- and long-term prospects. Following the strong results of the past year, we are poised in 2014 to consolidate our leading position as a science-based and patient-oriented healthcare company, and to sustainably increase shareholder value through the continuous management of our diversified product portfolio. Although economic and regulatory conditions remain generally challenging, and price and competitive pressures persist, Novartis stands on firm ground and is ready to address future challenges. We will continue to make every effort to fulfill our core tasks in the interest of all stakeholder groups: to cure diseases, ease suffering, and enhance the quality of life for patients around the world. 

I would like to thank you, our shareholders, for the trust you have placed in our company, and am pleased to propose a 7% dividend increase to CHF 2.45 at the next Annual General Meeting. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Novartis 2004

Dear Shareholder:

I am  pleased to report strong business performance in our  ninth business year,  which  ended with yet another record result and market share gains.

Let me  summarize the  key 2004 figures:
?  Group net  sales increased 14% (9%  in local  currencies)
to USD 28.2 billion
? Pharmaceuticals net  sales rose 15% (10% in local  currencies)
? Consumer Health net  sales gained 10% (5%  in local  currencies)

?  Group operating income advanced to USD 6.5  billion
(+11%),

?  Net  income growth of 15% to USD 5.8  billion

?  Earnings per  share USD 2.36 (+16%)

Innovation and a focus  on patients, core elements of our strategy, resulted in another record performance These record results reflect our  emphasis on sustainable, organic growth, a  product of  our  consistent innovation strategy and the  skills  and commitment of over  81 000 associates worldwide.
The  Pharmaceuticals division,  again led  by  our  can-  cer  and cardiovascular franchises, posted a  double-digit rise  in sales, with market share expanding globally.  These successes were  realized in a challenging health-care mar- ket characterized by cost-containment measures in many parts of the  world.

In 2004, we  increased overall  R&D investments by 12%  to USD 4.2  billion
Our  pharmaceutical research  and  development (R&D) expenditure ranked as  one  of the  highest in the  industry, relative to sales (18.8%), with  outlays of USD 3.5  billion. This  investment  allowed us  to  complete construction of new laboratories, and hire more than 800 scientists at our  new  research headquarters in  Cambridge, MA. New  or enhanced platforms in biology and chemistry, paired with scientific leadership,  not  only  fortified fundamental and applied research but  also  improved the  compound selec- tion  process, speeding up  pipeline throughput.
The   Novartis  Institutes   for   BioMedical  Research (NIBR) continue to focus their  efforts on tractable biolog-  ical  targets and selected disease areas with  high  unmet medical needs, striving to bring novel medicines rapidly to patients. To achieve this  objective, we are  intensifying our  efforts to elucidate the  function of specific human genes identified by the Human Genome Project. While structur- al blueprints for these genes are  now  available, in most cases the  genes’ primary role in the  body and their  poten- tial involvement in disease remain unknown. “Functional- izing” the  genome is a vast  undertaking ? one  beyond the  means and resources of any  single company. According- ly, we  have  forged dozens of  collaborations, completing 48  alliances with industry and 100 with academia.

Pipeline  of  new   drugs   is  one   of  the   industry’s strongest
Our  pharmaceutical  development pipeline is one  of the  best with  75  compounds, 52  of which  are  in  advanced development  or  registration.  Over  the   past few  years, Novartis has maintained its leading position in R&D pro- ductivity. Novartis  has  received  13  US  approvals since 2000, the  highest figure  of any  Top  Ten  global  pharma- ceutical  company.   Of  particular  importance  are   first- in-class  compounds and,   currently,  7  of  our  10  highly  innovative compounds  in mid-to-late-stage development belong to this  group.

Among  these are:
?  LAF237,  the  first  of a  new  class of “incretin enhancers,” oral  antidiabetic agents that indirectly increase the  blood glucose regulating hormone  GLP-1.  Phase III  trial  data for LAF237  are  expected during the  latter part of 2005.

?  SPP100  is   the   first   in   a   new   antihypertensive   class called  “renin  inhibitors.” Elevated renin  levels   increase the  risk  of  myocardial infarction and renal damage. So, SPP100 has the  potential for  improved end-organ pro- tection. Phase III data are  expected in 3Q 2005.

?  FTY720,  an  immunomodulator with  a  novel  mechanism of action, has recently completed Phase II studies as  an oral treatment  for  multiple  sclerosis,  showing a  reduc- tion  of brain lesions and a  significantly reduced  relapse rate for MS patients treated.

?  PTK787  is  an   anticancer  drug  that  inhibits all  known angiogenesis  factors involved in  cancer.  Submission for US  regulatory approval is planned for the  second half  of
2005.

?  AMN107  is  our  new,  most  selective BCR-ABL inhibitor, a potentially more effective follow-up compound  for our revolutionary medicine  Gleevec/Glivec.  Phase  II  studies will begin in the  first half of 2005.

Promising new  compounds bring hope  to patients As  a  physician,  I  often  witnessed  the   hope that R&D brought to  patients, especially in  life-threatening situa- tions.   New treatments that can  reduce suffering and high health-care costs are  needed for the  more than 10 million  people diagnosed with cancer annually, and for those suf- fering from  incapacitating Alzheimer’s dementia, diabetes  and cardiovascular  disease, all on the  rise.
It is a fact that a good profit  outlook is a precondition for any industrial R&D activities. In turn intellectual prop- erty protection is the  only way to ensure the  open sharing of research findings without fear of copying, and to be cer-  tain  that there is a potential to earn an  adequate return from   successful  projects. Therefore strong  intellectual 
property rights are  a foundation for sustained innovation and allow us to continue to invest in R&D despite long lead  times of 12?15 years. In this  context I welcome the  deci-  sion   by  India   to  introduce patent  protection in  2005, which,  I believe will accelerate development of an  innova- tive domestic Indian pharmaceutical industry and encour- age  direct investment by international companies in local drug discovery and clinical  research. Let’s remember that overall  the pharmaceutical industry invests nearly USD 50  billion a year  in research and development, the single most important source of investment in health research.

Drugs  effectively fight  disease and  reduce overall  health-care costs
On a macro level, it is clear that the  need for novel  medi- cines will rise  as  the  population ages. The United Nations Population Division reports that in North America, 16% of the  population was  over  60  years of age  in 2000. By the  year 2025, it projects this  percentage will rise  to 25%; in Europe, the  corresponding figure  will be  even  higher. The increased life expectancy is primarily a consequence of the  tremendous advances we  have  made in medical knowl- edge. For example: Over  the  last  40  years mortality as  a consequence of hypertensive heart disease dropped by
67%, the  death rate for GI ulcers declined by 61%, and for emphysema by  31%, and infant mortality dropped by  a staggering 80%.
Of course, this  is not  just  due to better drug therapies but, also, to better diagnostics, surgery and care. But there is no doubt, for example, that modern pharmacotherapy played a major role  in the  60% drop in mortality over  the  past 25 years for children who suffer from  cancer. Since I became a physician, I have  witnessed how new medicines have  revolutionized many medical fields,  such as  trans- plantation, ulcer  therapy, cancer therapy, the  treatment of ischemic heart disease and the  therapy for schizophrenia, to  name just  a  few.  New  treatments have   also   helped reduce chronic disability, which  dropped by 25% over the  past 20  years in people over 60. So people on average not  only   live  longer,  but  also   better.  Furthermore, studies demonstrate that rational drug therapy shortens hospital stays, creating significant  system savings. These savings by  far  exceed  the   incremental  costs  of  modern  drug therapy.

A medicine-based business portfolio
As a company,  we want  to  discover,  develop and market medicines that are  best suited for specific conditions. This includes innovative prescription medicines, which  some- times are  breakthroughs and have  the  power to  change the   way  medicine   is  practiced.  A  recent  example  is Gleevec/Glivec  for   the   treatment  of   chronic  myeloid leukemia; another is Neoral, which  revolutionized the  field of organ transplantation. But our medicine-based business portfolio not  only includes innovative medicines, but  also  provides generics and self-medication drugs.
Generics play  an  important role  in  times of  rising  healthcare    costs,   providing   cost-effective   treatment options. Our  generics business unit,  Sandoz, offers  best- quality and attractively priced medicines. After a dynam- ic  internal and external growth phase over  the  past few years, the  2004 performance of our  Generics business in the   US  and German markets was  disappointing. Price  competition and delays of new  product launches had a negative  impact. As a consequence, we are  focusing our  efforts on building a cost-competitive structure on a global  scale and investing to speed up  our  development efforts. Following  our  strategy we pursue organic growth comple- mented by external growth. In 2004, we participated in the  ongoing consolidation of the  generics industry by acquir- ing Sabex Holding in Canada and Durascan in Denmark.
At Novartis Consumer Health, the  OTC, Animal Health, Medical Nutrition and Infant  & Baby business units all out- performed their  markets, reflecting the  division’s strategic focus on  Consumer and Customer Excellence. Dedicated customer teams formed last  year  to  serve key  accounts such as  Wal-Mart  Stores, Inc., are  pooling efforts across business units and drawing on  cross-functional capabili- ties  to generate synergies and further growth.

Providing access for patients in need
Today,  many speak about the  right  to  health as  a  basic human right.  We support this  concept as  an  aspirational objective, realizing that no single party will ever be able  to cover  the  many needs of patients who  do  not  have  the financial means to buy  healthcare services and drugs. All the  various actors, primarily governments, but  also  inter- national organizations, companies and civil society, have  a role  to play. But thanks to our  strong financial results in
2004, we were  able  to expand our  “access to medicines” programs for  uninsured and indigent patients suffering from   leprosy,   malaria,  tuberculosis,  chronic  myeloid leukemia and other diseases, all  part of  our  important worldwide corporate citizenship program. Currently we are  also scaling up production capacity for Coartem,  our novel antimalarial  medicine, in  response to  rapid changes in treatment   policies in  malaria-endemic  countries.  The Novartis Foundation for Sustainable Development, which  celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2004, is an outstanding example of how we actively  shoulder our  social responsi- bility  to  alleviate the   immense  poverty and  associated human misery in the  developing world.
The most innovative initiative, however, is our research center for tropical diseases, The Novartis Institute for Trop-  ical  Diseases (NITD), which  we  recently inaugurated  in Singapore. NITD, managed on a not-for-profit basis, focus- es  on finding new  therapies for Dengue fever  and Tuber- culosis, both neglected diseases that are  gaining in impor- tance, especially in developing countries.
All told, in 2004, we donated USD 570 million through various corporate citizenship programs. This is the  Novar-  tis contribution to the  most needy patients in the  world.

The solution to future health-care challenges is an undiminished commitment to innovation
At present, a  number of parties are  attacking the  phar- maceutical industry.  Some of  this  critique is  valid.  But often,  the   public  unfortunately  ignores  or  forgets  the  immense progress achieved in medical practice thanks to modern  pharmacotherapy.  In the  past, money was  often not a key factor when the health or even the life of a patient was at stake. It appears today that costs can  be a primary concern for many people. Steps taken to lower costs, such as   continuous,  imposed  price reductions, have   had a

deeply negative effect   on  the   pharmaceutical research base in certain countries, especially in Europe. Proposals to  break patents would  have  an  even  more devastating consequence, as  this  would  destroy the  foundation for R&D  investment.  Keeping the   pharmaceutical  industry profitable is a safeguard for our  children and grandchil- dren, so that they  will be  able  to continue to benefit from  the   advances  of  innovative medicines  that  treat  the  unavoidable burden of disease.
Let me  finish  my  letter by  emphasizing that we are  determined to run  our  business not  only  according to all regulatory and legal  requirements but,  also,  in an  ethical way.  We have  therefore adapted our  control environment, dedicating additional resources in order to  comply with the  US  Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In  2004, we  have  not  only enforced  guidelines regarding  internal  conduct  in  our  business activities but,  also,  started to report on  cases of misconduct that we  do  discover,  as  transparency com- bined with  adequate training is the  most effective way to discourage misbehavior.
I am  grateful to our associates, who have  done an out-  standing job  during the  past year,  allowing  Novartis to achieve excellent results and to improve the  lives of many patients across the  globe.  I’d particularly like to mention the efforts of our  associates to aid  emergency relief  pro-  grams following  the  recent earthquake and tsunamis that caused such immense destruction and suffering in South- east Asia and the  eastern coast of Africa. During the  com- ing months, we will continue to cooperate closely with gov- ernments and non-governmental organizations to insure that our  medicines and donations reach people in need in the  affected areas.
I also wish to thank you, our Novartis shareholders, for your  continued confidence in us.

Sincerely,

Daniel  Vasella,  M.D.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Novartis 2005

DEAR SHAREHOLDERS:

It gives me particular pleasure  in our tenth  business year to report another set of record results.

Let me summarize  the key 2005  figures:

? Group  net sales increased 14%  (+13%  in local currencies)  to USD 32.2  billion
? Pharmaceuticals  sales  grew  by  10%  (+9%  in local currencies)
? Sandoz secured a 54%  increase in sales
(+54%  in local currencies)
? Consumer Health    sales   gained   8%  (+8%  in local currencies)
? Group   operating  income   advanced   to
USD 6.9 billion (+10%)
? Net income rose by 10% to USD 6.1 billion
? Earnings   per  share   amounted  to  USD
2.63  (+11%)
? Free  cash  flow  reached  USD 4.7  billion
(+42%)

This  good  performance reflects  our  clear and   consistent   strategy,   which   is  based on   innovation  and   achieving   a  leading position in the healthcare sector. Ultimately,  however,  the key factors  in our success are the skills and commitment of our associates, and  I would  like to  thank  them  for  their contribution.

Pharmaceuticals remains  our  biggest  and most profitable business. Particularly strong

growth  was posted  by the Cardiovascular and   Oncology   franchises,   thanks   to  the class-leading products Diovan  (used to con- trol  hypertension) and  Gleevec/Glivec (for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia). Overall, the division once again successfully increased its market  share last year. With a total of 76 projects in clinical development, we have  a full,  innovative  and  promising pipeline. But in spite of ? or precisely because of ? our current  success, we need to keep a sharp  eye on the market  evolution.

Three fundamental trends are boosting  de- mand for healthcare services and medicines:

1. The aging of the world’s population, as the incidence  and  the  prevalence  of disease rise with increasing  age;
2. Ongoing  technological  discoveries  and developments, which lay the foundation for innovative  pharmaceutical products; and
3. Rapid   economic   growth   in  countries  such as China,  India and Russia, leading to   improvements  in  the   provision   of public healthcare.

In  line  with  changes  in  the  population’s standard   of   living   and   lifestyles,   these countries  are  also experiencing  increasing incidence of chronic cardiovascular disease, diabetes,  cancer  and  respiratory illness. In 
China  alone, it is estimated  that  more than
160 million patients suffer from hypertension and more than 20 million have diabetes.  In addition, the  demand   for  effective  treat-  ments is outpacing economic growth:  while the  Chinese   economy   grew  by  9.8%   in
2005,   sales  of  pharmaceuticals  leapt  by
22.5%. In India, some 35% of the population currently  has access to essential drugs, and the  proportion is expected  to  increase  to
80%  by 2020.

Counteracting the  effects of these  growth  drivers, however, are various negative trends,  notably   government   price  controls,   with mandatory discounts,   competitive  pricing pressures,  parallel  imports  from  low-wage  countries,   and   increasingly   stringent   re- gulatory  requirements.  Cost  containment measures introduced by governments include the promotion of generics, which  over the next few years will show double-digit  expan- sion  worldwide   ?  in  contrast  to  market  growth for patent-protected medicines, which will be in the mid to high single-digit range.

In light of these developments, Novartis has
set its strategic direction as follows:
? First,  consistent   investment   in  R&D   ? enabling us to bring to market innovative  and   differentiated  products  that   offer patients clear therapeutic benefits
? Second, expansion of our generics business (to provide  affordable treatment options  following  patent  expiries) and,
? Development of promising  new  growth  platforms such as vaccines (to reduce health- care costs through disease prevention).

These,  precisely,  were  the  priorities   that  we pursued  in 2005.  The Pharmaceuticals Division   further    expanded   its   research operations, and  this process  will continue  in the coming year. For our generics business, the acquisition of Hexal  and  Eon Labs re- presented not only a geographical expansion but  a substantial  reinforcement and  rein- vigoration. In the  US and  Germany  ? the most important generics markets  ? we have secured a leading position,  and gained access to a rich pipeline and new technologies. The incorporation of a dynamic entrepreneurial culture   is  also  having   beneficial   effects. Sales  are  growing   rapidly,   integration  is proceeding  according  to plan, and the team is highly motivated. Also pending is the out- right  acquisition of Chiron, a company  in which we have held a minority  stake  since
1995. While Chiron’s pharmaceutical oper- ations  can be integrated into  our  own  and its   diagnostics    unit   has   posted    strong growth, its vaccines business suffered a seri- ous decline as a result of significant quality  problems  in  production. Accordingly,  we have decided to bring our quality assurance  expertise to bear and are planning  strategic expansion of the vaccines business through appropriate investments.

Last year also saw the strengthening of our OTC Business Unit  through the acquisition of the North American Consumer Medicines business  of  Bristol-Myers  Squibb  (BMS). This  move  has  consolidated our  position  not  only  in  a  key market  but  also  in  the analgesics segment, where BMS was a major player with its Excedrin® brand.

Through organic  growth  and  acquisitions in  the  course   of  2005,   we  thus   further  expanded our  operations in the healthcare sector,   paving   the   way   for   additional sustained   growth   and   at  the  same  time spreading  risks more widely.

What  is ultimately  essential,  of course,  is not   only   strategic   decision-making   but progress on the operational front. The gains in  market  share  achieved  by Pharmaceuti- cals  have  already  been  mentioned   above. There  was a further  rise in the proportion of sales generated  by products that will con- tinue   to  enjoy  patent   protection  for  an extended  period  of time.

The first approval worldwide  was granted  last  year  by  the  US FDA  for  Exjade,  the breakthrough oral iron chelator.  Iron over- load,   mainly   occurring    as   a   result   of frequent   blood   transfusions,  previously required     continuous   infusion    therapy,  which    was    especially   burdensome   for children  and adolescents.  Exjade  now sub- stantially    facilitates    treatment   for   this group  of patients  in particular.

In Europe, the regulatory authorities granted  marketing  clearance   for  Xolair   (for  the treatment  of  severe  allergic  asthma)   and Aclasta (for Paget’s disease).

Of the 76 projects  currently  in clinical de- velopment, 50 are already in late-stage trials.

One   product  I  mentioned   in  last  year’s letter  was Galvus  (LAF237,  vildagliptin)  ? 
the first of a new class of oral  antidiabetic agents known  as incretin  enhancers.  In the meantime,  positive data have been reported from the most recent large-scale (Phase III) clinical trials.  This new drug  can be com- bined with several other  antidiabetic agents, including  insulin,  or  used  alone.  Another  encouraging  finding is that patients  treated  with  Galvus  showed  no  weight  gain  ? in contrast to  most  other  oral  antidiabetics. The first regulatory filing for this product is planned  in  the  US for  the  first  half  of
2006.

Also successful were the  clinical trials  for Rasilez  (SPP100,  aliskiren),  the  first  in  a new   antihypertensive  class   called   renin inhibitors. In these studies, Rasilez showed excellent   tolerability  and   provided   sus- tained 24-hour blood pressure control,  thus also offering  protection against  dangerous early morning  surges.

Further  observation of patients  with multi- ple sclerosis who were treated  with FTY720
? a novel, experimental immunomodulator ? substantiated  the  positive  Phase  II  data.  During  treatment with  this  agent,  inflam- matory  lesions in the brain  resolved  more rapidly, and relapse rates were significantly reduced over a 12-month follow-up  period.  However,  these  findings  will  need  to  be confirmed  in additional studies before reg- istration can be envisaged.

Unfortunately, the trial data  for PTK787  ? an agent designed to block new blood vessel formation (angiogenesis)  in  tumors  ? fell

short  of expectations. The course of disease was  only  improved   in  one  subgroup  of patients  with colorectal  cancer who received this treatment. Whether  this compound can ever be registered  remains  to be seen.

Clinical   development  of  pitavastatin,  a cholesterol-lowering compound licensed-in some years ago, has been terminated, as it proved less effective than  had been hoped.  We are  thus  reminded  that  while  R&D  is often  fortunate enough  to  achieve  break- throughs that  decisively improve  the  lives of thousands of patients, it is never immune to costly setbacks.

Access  to  medicine  and  drugs for  needy patients, particularly in developing  coun- tries, remains  an important concern.  There is little  public  awareness  of the  fact  that,  since  the   UN   Millennium  Development Goals   were  proclaimed  in  2000,   multi- national  pharmaceutical  companies   have entered  into  more  than  126  partnerships for  the  benefit  of  patients   in  developing  nations.  As a result of these initiatives, over
540  million treatments, worth  in excess of USD  4.4  billion,  have  been  provided   to needy patients. These figures relate only to long-term   programs  and  do  not   include assistance    to   patients    in   industrialized nations  or disaster  relief. Last year, taking all pro bono contributions into account, the total  aid  provided  for patients  in need by Novartis alone amounted to USD 696 mil- lion, with 6.5 million patients being treated.  The main element of this commitment was the donation of medicines for the treatment

of leprosy, malaria,  tuberculosis  and chronic myeloid leukemia.  On top of humanitarian considerations, this aid produces substantial economic benefits, as it may enable patients  to start work again and support themselves and their families.

The pharmaceutical industry’s commitment to patients  in developing  countries  exceeds that  of  any  other  industry   sector  world-  wide. But it cannot  succeed single-handedly. There  is a fundamental need  for  effective action  by governments that  are  primarily  concerned with the welfare of their citizens, as  well  as  for  partnerships with  interna-  tional  organizations and civil society.

The  company’s  tenth  year  of  operations provides   me  with  the  opportunity  for  a brief review. In 1995, Ciba and Sandoz with a  combined  headcount of 134 000  posted total  sales of around USD 27 billion (using today’s currency translation rates); in 2005,  with  just  over  91  000   employees,   sales reached  USD 32 billion. In the initial post- merger    years,    spin-offs    and    disposals  removed  almost   50%   of  the  1995   total  sales   and   a   corresponding   number    of employees.  This  transformed the  business portfolio dramatically.
While the healthcare sector  accounted for only 46%  of total  sales a decade  ago, this proportion has now risen to more than
90%.  In just 10 years,  Novartis has  trans- formed itself from a widely diversified con- glomerate into a focused leading healthcare company.  During  this  10-year  period,  net income increased from USD 3.17 billion to 
USD 6.1 billion (+92%),  of course not tak- ing into  account  revenues  or  profits  from divested companies.

The Novartis brand  has also been success- fully established  worldwide, ranking  among the  50  best  global   brands   according   to Business  Week. The  company  also  enjoys an excellent  reputation: in 2005,  Novartis was   listed   among   the   world’s   50   most respected companies by the Financial Times and   Barron’s,   and   it   also   featured    in Fortune  magazine’s  list of the  world’s  50 most  admired  companies.  A key point  of interest  to investors  is the total  sharehold-  er   return   (TSR).   Taking   spin-offs   into account, the annual  TSR averaged  12.7%, outperforming both  the  SMI (by 2.1 per- centage points)  and the MSCI Pharmaceu- tical Index (by 2.6 percentage  points).

I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity to thank   everyone  whose  efforts  and  ideas have contributed to the success of Novartis. In particular, I would  like to mention  Pro- fessor Helmut  Sihler, Vice Chairman of the Board  of Directors  and  independent Lead Director,   who  has  played  a  vital  role  in shaping   our  company’s   success  since  its creation.  As a man  of exceptional intelli- gence and experience, he has influenced our deliberations   and    decisions    with    keen business  acumen  and  excellent  judgment, without  ever   neglecting   the   importance of  human   relations.   Professor  Sihler  will retire  from  the  Board  at  the  forthcoming Annual  General  Meeting.  In  his  capacity as  independent Lead  Director,   he  will  be succeeded by Professor Ulrich Lehner, who will additionally serve, together  with Hans-  Joerg  Rudloff,   as  Vice  Chairman  of  the Board of Directors.

I am  confident  that  Novartis will remain successful in the future despite any possible setbacks.  Sound  foundations are  provided by our  clear strategy  ? with  significant  in- vestments  in world-class  research  yielding innovative  products and our determination to invest in growth  segments of the health-  care  sector.  The  skills, integrity  and  com- mitment   of  our  associates,  management and   Board   of  Directors   can  be  trusted,  giving us the ability to act rapidly,  flexibly and with circumspection. Naturally, we also hope  for  a little  luck,  which  occasionally  is needed.

I wish to thank  you, our Novartis sharehol-  ders, for your  loyalty  and  your  confidence in us.

Sincerely,

DANIEL VASELLA, M.D.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Novartis 2006


DEAR SHAREHOLDERS:

It gives me great pleasure in our eleventh busi- ness  year  to  report   another   set  of  record results.

?  Group net sales rose 15% (+14%  in local currencies)  to USD 37 billion
?  Operating income advanced 18% to USD
8.2 billion
?  Net income grew 17% to USD 7.2 billion
?  Earnings per share (EPS) were up 16%
?  Free cash flow reached USD 4.3 billion

This  outstanding  performance  reflects  our continuous focus on innovation and building a broad  portfolio   around  growth  areas of  the healthcare  sector.  Ultimately,  the  skills  and commitment of our associates are the key fac- tors for our success, and I would like to thank them for their contributions.

The pharmaceutical industry is confronted with conflicting trends. Demand is continu-  ally rising  for healthcare  services, medicines, vaccines and diagnostics, which is generating higher   costs  that   in   many   countries   are increasingly  the  focal  point  of  political  and social debate. Studies have repeatedly proven that  appropriate use of medicines  generally reduces  treatment   costs  and  also  that  the majority  of healthcare cost increases are gen- erated in hospitals. However, the pharmaceu-  tical industry remains the primary  target in the cost debate even though  medicines  account for only 10% to 20% of overall costs, depend- ing on the country.

Still,   the   healthcare   sector   will   remain   a dynamic  growth  area in the future  driven  by the following trends:

? The aging of the world’s population contin- ues unabated, generating steadily increas- ing demand  for medicines due to the rising incidence of degenerative diseases and cancer as people grow older. The approach- ing wave of retirements in the post-war

“baby boomer” generation will further  stimu- late demand in our most important markets.
? The strong economic expansion in popu- lous countries  such as China, India and Russia is translating  into over-proportional growth in demand  for healthcare services. Accompanying  this economic growth has been the increasing adoption  of lifestyles typical of affluent, industrial countries. That, in turn, has led to a higher incidence of obesity, chronic cardiovascular  disease, diabetes, cancer and lung diseases.
? Finally, new technologies are enabling the discovery and development  of innovative medicines for patients suffering from otherwise untreatable  diseases.

At  the  same  time,  our  industry   faces chal- lenges ranging from government price controls and  intensified   competition  to  increasingly stringent  regulatory  controls  that are escalat- ing  the  costs  of  Research  &  Development. Product liability  risks, which can be very cost- ly, are another important factor that is attract- ing a great deal of attention  and fueling  fun- damental  distrust  of the industry.

The most  far-reaching  cost reduction  meas- ures  taken  by  various  governments  include promoting greater use of generic pharmaceu- ticals, sales of which are likely to experience double-digit growth  in  the  coming  years as opposed to the anticipated single-digit  growth forecast for patent-protected medicines.

In these industry conditions, “business as usual” is no longer a viable long-term option. Identifying    and   addressing   the   needs   of patients remains at the forefront  of all that we do. This includes  taking a serious look at the economic   and   political   realities   in   which patients live because this plays a major role in determining how products  are made available to them. This is why our business portfolio  sys- tematically  reflects the dynamically changing healthcare market:  growing demand  for inno
vative medicines (Pharmaceuticals),  the rising support  for  greater  use of cheaper  generics (Sandoz), the increasingly  prominent role of vaccines (Vaccines and Diagnostics) and greater empowerment of patients (Consumer Health).

We have the best portfolio to optimally lever- age growth opportunities in healthcare  in the interest of both our customers and sharehold- ers while also reducing risks.

Novartis has defined the following strategic ini- tiatives:

? Invest vigorously in R&D to continue bringing new and innovative products to the market
? Strengthen  the Sandoz generics business, which provides affordable  treatment  options following the expiry of patents
? Expand businesses with synergy potential, such as between Pharmaceuticals,  OTC and Animal Health
? Further build our new growth platform in Vaccines and Diagnostics by focusing on preventive medicine

We sharpened our focus on these priorities in
2006,  which resulted  in the healthcare  busi- nesses now accounting  for 96%  of total  net sales compared  to just 45% in 1995.

Pharmaceuticals is our most important division, again growing faster than the mar- ket. Strong demand for our top cardiovascular  and  oncology   drugs   led  the  performance.  Sales growth in the US and in emerging mar- kets such as China and Russia were particu-  larly dynamic, with the performance in Europe less robust.  The extraordinary success of our antihypertensive medicine Diovan is poised to continue its dynamic growth. Our cancer ther- apy Gleevec/Glivec  generated  sales of over USD 2.5 billion  in only its fifth year. Two other cancer medicines, Zometa and Femara, have also developed well.

Vaccines and Diagnostics enjoyed  impres- sive growth, with the integration  of the newly acquired Chiron business proceeding smooth- ly  and  the  successful  resolution   of  quality  problems  in influenza vaccine production. Our new  cell  culture   production  technology   for influenza vaccines could save lives in the event of a pandemic  flu outbreak due to the shorter lead times. A new seasonal influenza  vaccine based on this  technology  was submitted for European  approval  in  2006.  New  diseases, such as avian flu and SARS as well as resistant bacterial and fungal infections, will continue to generate strong demand  in the future for new vaccines and medicines.

Sandoz expanded its retail generics business, particularly in the US, Eastern and Southern Europe, Russia, Switzerland, Canada, and Aus- tralia. In Germany, the impact  of severe price pressure  was felt.  Our  recombinant  growth hormone  Omnitrope became the first  follow- on version of an approved biotechnology drug to  be  granted  US and  European  approvals. Given  the  large  number   of  biotechnology drugs already without or set to lose patent pro- tection  in the coming  years, these so-called “biosimilars” are expected to play an increas- ingly important role by providing patients with affordable, safe and effective alternatives to the original treatments.

The  Consumer Health  Division  performed very well as the OTC and Animal Health busi- nesses  each  posted  double-digit  net  sales growth.  In line  with  our  continued  focus  on healthcare,  we signed a definitive  agreement to divest the Medical Nutrition business. I am convinced this transaction  is an ideal solution for Medical Nutrition,  one that offers the man- agement  and associates of this business the best  future   prospects.   Proceeds  from   the transaction will further strengthen our financial position and provide greater strategic flexibility.

Of course, the  successes of  our  businesses depends not only on strategic  objectives but also in executing  them  successfully,  particu-  larly in R&D.

We are planning to launch several innova- tive medicines during the next two years and will keep investing vigorously in R&D. We will also further complement our own R&D programs through alliances and collaborations for development compounds and cutting-edge  technologies.

Novartis has 138  projects in clinical devel- opment.  Among these are 50 new molecular  entities (NMEs) and 88 life-cycle management  projects with new indications  or formulations. In 2006,  over 20 new projects were added to the pipeline. Key areas of R&D are cardiovas- cular/metabolic diseases, cancer and neuro- logical  conditions  as well as respiratory  and infectious  diseases.

Shortly  before the end of 2006,  we received approval from  the US Food and Drug Admin- istration   (FDA)  for  Exforge  (valsartan   and amlodipine),  a single-tablet combination of the two most prescribed antihypertensives in their respective   classes,  and   expect   European approval  to follow  during  the  course  of this year. We also anticipate regulatory decisions in
2007   for  two  other   important  medicines:  Tekturna/Rasilez  (aliskiren), a renin  inhibitor for the treatment  of hypertension, and Galvus (vildagliptin), a once-daily  oral treatment  for patients  with type 2 diabetes. The US regula- tory agency extended its review after recently available data  for  both  Tekturna/Rasilez and Galvus were submitted to clarify  open ques- tions.  Delays  are  unfortunately  part  of  our industry and inherent  in the R&D process.

For two other  development  compounds,  the submissions  for US and European regulatory  approvals  were  accelerated  and  completed  earlier  than  planned  in 2006.  Tasigna (nilo
tinib)  is a new treatment  option  for patients with certain forms of chronic myeloid leukemia who  have  resistance  and/or  intolerance   to treatment    with   our   Gleevec/Glivec,   while Aclasta/Reclast (zoledronic acid) is a conven- ient once-yearly infusion  lasting only 15 min- utes  as  a  treatment   for  women  with  post- menopausal  osteoporosis.

Among  the  many  innovative  compounds in late-stage development at Novartis, I would like to particularly highlight FTY720 and RAD001.

FTY720 (fingolimod) is seeking to become the first  oral once-daily  therapy  for patients  with relapsing  multiple sclerosis, a condition  esti- mated to affect more than 2.5 million  patients worldwide  and  women  at  twice  the  rate  as men. This compound is now in the final stage of development after an earlier Phase II trial showed  positive  results  during  two  years of treatment  in helping  patients with this poten- tially debilitating neurological  condition.  Sub- mission is on track for 2009.

RAD001  (everolimus)  is  a novel  oral  com- pound in development  to inhibit  a cell signal- ing pathway called mTOR considered to be an important therapeutic  target  in oncology.  At effective and well-tolerated doses, RAD001 has demonstrated broad clinical activity in patients with various tumor types. This compound acts by directly inhibiting both the growth of tumor  cells as well as the formation of new blood ves- sels   (angiogenesis).  If  positive   results   are achieved in clinical trials with difficult-to-treat forms  of cancer,  the first  regulatory  submis- sions could be submitted as early as 2008.

The Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research (NIBR), created four years ago to strengthen the company’s  long tradition in drug discovery, is bolstering  the pipeline  through  new discovery approaches and an increasing focus on biotech- nology compounds. We are expanding our exist- ing development  activities  in China by estab-

lishing an integrated R&D institute  in Shanghai that  will  focus  on  diseases particular to  the region, such as liver cancer. This is not a “typi-  cal” China investment  focused on cost savings but one aimed at gaining access to the coun- try’s vast talent pool and scientific promise. The choice of Shanghai reflects the vitality and eco- nomic  potential  of this city and the changing global economy; it is imperative to have a strong local presence in this fast-growing environment.

Novartis   has   been   rapidly    advancing   its pipeline   by  complementing  internal   efforts with collaborations and targeted acquisitions.  Last year, we acquired  the UK biopharmaceu- ticals company  NeuTec and added two com- pounds  ? Mycograb for fungal  infections  and Aurograb for bacterial infections ? that will fur- ther strengthen  our presence in the fast-grow- ing hospital infections  segment.

Let me close by offering some perspectives on the   challenges   facing   the   pharmaceutical industry  and how we are addressing  the sig- nificant social and political changes underway:

Innovation is our  core activity.  We must  not allow the challenging  political  environment to distract us from our ultimate goal: discovering, developing and quickly bringing  to the market new drugs  with  real  therapeutic   benefits  to both  individual  patients  and  to  society.  The pharmaceutical industry is not without criticism, but  thanks to the important contributions of medicines   and   vaccines,  many   infectious diseases can now be prevented  or effectively treated.  Survival  rates  for  children  suffering from cancer have doubled in the last 25 years, while the incidence of strokes and heart attacks have  been   significantly  reduced.   Novartis medicines ? from Gleevec/Glivec and Neoral to Coartem and Clozaril/Leponex ? have positively changed the lives of thousands, if not millions, of patients  around  the world. These patients have benefited enormously  from  the success of our industry  and also Novartis.

Intellectual property rights are central to the economy. Without  them, many of the breath- taking  technological  developments  since the Industrial Revolution would not have occurred. Protecting innovation is the best protection  for patients, laying the foundation for the massive investments   made  by  the  pharmaceuticals industry   in  R&D  that  are  vital  to  medical progress. Novartis  will  continue  to resist the pressure to soften its position  on the need to vigorously protect intellectual  property in favor of short-term political  gain.

Reputation is valuable capital in the form  of trust, but a resource that cannot be stockpiled. It must  be earned  daily.  Novartis  enjoys  an excellent international reputation. However, we must  better  explain to the public  the positive impact  of our industry,  how it functions,  the benefits  of our  products  for society and the relationship between risk, reward and innova- tion. Our industry  has failed to communicate effectively  on  the  substantial  role medicines play  in  reducing  overall  healthcare  costs. It would be a serious setback if the demand  for innovative medicines continues but without an understanding that innovation  requires  enor- mous investments  and risks ? in other words, that innovation  has its price.

Corporate citizenship is taken seriously  at Novartis and is an integral  component of our business   strategy.   Our   access-to-medicine programs  in  2006  reached  over  33  million  patients worldwide, with contributions totaling  USD 755  million.  This represented  some 2% of our total Group net sales donated to disad- vantaged patients.

The Novartis Institute  for Tropical Diseases in Singapore has expanded its research activities to include malaria along with tuberculosis  and dengue fever, diseases that are still troubling and  common   in  developing   countries.   We decided in 2006 to sharply reduce the average treatment  price of Coartem, the most effective 
anti-malaria drug, to USD 1.00 ? a loss-mak- ing activity for us. More than 60 million  treat- ments  were delivered  to  endemic  countries last year, a dramatic  increase from  only four million  in 2004  due to our expanded produc-  tion capacity.

We are doing what we believe is right: helping patients in need while also strengthening our position as a reliable partner in the health sec- tor.  At  the same time,  corporate  citizenship  also calls for a strong sense of reality, and this means  rejecting  overblown  expectations  of some  stakeholders.  We cannot  assume  the responsibilities  of  governments.   Well-func- tioning  access-to-medicine programs  require governments to create the appropriate infra- structure  and distribution networks, provide legal certainty  and a safe environment ? all of which  we cannot  provide.  This can only  be achieved  through   the  collaboration  of  all involved  stakeholders.  It  is  imperative   that pharmaceutical    companies,    governments, international organizations  and  NGOs work together   to  ensure  that   patients   in  need receive proper  care.

We must overcome a culture  of blaming  each other; the precarious situation  in many devel- oping countries is far too serious for symbolic posturing.  We are seeking an open dialogue with  all  stakeholder  groups,  one  based  on mutual  trust  and  tolerance  with  the  aim  of long-term  success  ? not  only  in  access-to- medicine   initiatives   but  also  in  day-to-day business activities.

Strong values are critical  during  this time of rapid change. Now more than ever, strong val- ues are important to hold a company  togeth- er: to  concentrate  energies, guide  decisions and place greater focus on performance objec- tives. Our success during the last 10 years has been based on such values ? a consistent focus on performance and results, an open culture and acting responsibly  for patients  and soci-

eties. The values of a company  become par- ticularly  evident  during  a takeover situation, where there  is often  a temptation to simply absorb the acquired company. I personally see acquisitions  ? such as those during  the last two years involving Hexal, Eon Labs and Chi- ron ? as learning opportunities and assurance that  monotony,  complacency  and  self-satis- faction  have no chance of taking hold in our organization.

Balancing  global  aspirations  and  local identities is a constant  task. The process of globalization  is not a one-way street; to think so  would  be a dangerous  illusion.  We must respect local and national  customs,  whether they involve languages, cultural  aspects or the law. At the same time, we have established and are    implementing   standards    throughout Novartis  ? particularly our  Code of Conduct and  our   Corporate  Citizenship   Policy  and guidelines. For example, Novartis has initiated  a “living  wage” program  to set minimum pay standards  around the world for its associates. We expect similar  conduct  from  our business partners.  We have also set strict  global envi- ronmental and safety standards, ones that are the  same  at  our  Basel  headquarters   as in developing countries.

As a shareholder, you naturally  have an inter- est in the performance of your company. Our innovative  and  risk-diversified portfolio   has delivered strong returns when looking at share price  gains, dividends  and spin-offs.  Indeed, the value of an investment  in Novartis  more than tripled  from January 1, 1996, to Decem- ber 31, 2006, exceeding the total shareholder return of most of our competitors.  I am confi- dent  that  Novartis  will  continue  to  be suc- cessful. Since the  creation of Novartis in 1996,  our company has been a leader of change and progress, not a passive observer. This remains the case today thanks to our forward-looking   strategy,   our   considerable  powers of innovation,  operational  excellence

and solid basic values ? Novartis  has what it takes to identify  future  opportunities and to translate them into commercial success.

Dr. Marc Moret, a talented  leader who served as Chairman of the Board of Directors of San- doz until the merger with Ciba-Geigy in 1996, passed away on March  17, 2006.  One of his most  impressive  achievements  was certainly the creation of Novartis. With a strategic fore- sight still admired today, he realized much ear- lier than others how such strong, global organ- izations   could   succeed  in  an  increasingly  competitive environment.

The skills, dedication, and integrity of our asso- ciates have enabled  us to  secure our  place among  the world's  most  respected  and suc- cessful  pharmaceutical  companies.  When  it comes   to   setting   the   strategic   direction, appointing the best talent to key positions and ensuring effective control, our Board of Direc- tors plays a vital role. Dr. h.c. Birgit Breuel will leave the Board at the end of her term at the Annual  General Meeting  in March  2007.  We would like to thank Dr. Breuel for her efficient and valuable contribution to the work of the Boards of both Ciba-Geigy AG and Novartis AG.

I would also like to again thank our associates, whose  excellent  performance  during   2006  enabled Novartis to achieve both another year of  record  results  and  improve   the  lives  of countless patients worldwide.

My thanks also to you, our shareholders, for the trust you continue  to place in Novartis.


Sincerely,

Daniel Vasella, M.D.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Novartis 2007

DEAR SHAREHOLDERS:

It  gives me  great  pleasure  in  our  twelfth business  year,  which  has  been  the  most exceptional  in  the  history  of  Novartis,  to report another set of record results despite a difficult environment for the Pharmaceuticals Division,   which   experienced   disappoint- ments as well as successes.

We took  decisive  steps  in  2007  to  focus Novartis  solely on healthcare  through  the divestments of Medical Nutrition and Gerber, which led to net income advancing 66% to USD 12  billion.  This includes  the after-tax gain  of  USD 5.2  billion   from  the  divest- ments.

The sale of these businesses, along with one- time charges of approximately USD 1 billion  for  environmental provisions  and  restruc- turing  measures,  makes  it  challenging  to compare  this  performance with  the previ- ous year. Therefore I will focus on continu- ing operations:

?  Net sales from  continuing operations  rose 11% (+6%  in local currencies)  to USD 38.1 billion

?  Operating income from  continuing operations  rose 2% to USD 7.8 billion  excluding  these one-time  factors

?  Earnings per share (EPS) rose 68% to
USD 5.15 for the Group, and were up
9% to USD 3.15 for continuing opera- tions when also excluding  these one- time factors

?  Free cash flow from  continuing opera- tions reached USD 3.8 billion

All divisions  contributed to another  record level of net sales for  the Group. However, the  overall  results   were  impacted   by  a weaker performance in the Pharmaceuticals

Division, which stood in stark contrast to the dynamic  growth  of Vaccines and Diagnos- tics  and  Sandoz.  Consumer   Health  also delivered substantially  improved  results.

While the Pharmaceuticals Division faced a challenging  year, it is important to note the overall good results, even if these were less likely to make headlines than the setbacks. Europe,  Latin   America   and   the   priority  emerging  growth  markets  all posted  dou- ble-digit  expansion  in net sales, while  the Oncology   and   Neuroscience    franchises delivered strong double-digit growth. Many of the top ten selling medicines  ? above all Gleevec/Glivec for the treatment  of chronic myeloid  leukemia and the high blood pres- sure medicine  Diovan ? maintained leading positions  in their  therapeutic  areas. In the US, by contrast,  net sales declined  sharply following   the   withdrawal    of   Zelnorm   in March and the entry of generic competition, which  to some extent was unforeseen,  for Lotrel, Lamisil, Trileptal and Famvir. In 2006, these   five   products    together   generated annual     net     sales     of     approximately USD 3 billion  in the US, so these setbacks represent a loss of more than 10% of glob- al Pharmaceuticals Division net sales. Addi- tional   challenges   included    the   ongoing delay in gaining US regulatory  approval for the  new  diabetes  medicine   Galvus and  a regulatory decision in the US not to approve Prexige.

At the same time, all of our other healthcare businesses delivered excellent results.

The  Vaccines  and  Diagnostics  Division enjoyed  dynamic  growth  in  2007.  Strong deliveries of influenza vaccines to the US, as well as vaccines for tick-borne  encephalitis  and  for  pediatric  immunization, were the most important growth drivers. The pipeline made  significant  progress, particularly the development    of   potentially    first-in-class  vaccines for meningococcal  meningitis,  and 
supported  by a new strategic  alliance with Intercell  that  provides  exclusive access to several promising projects.

The generics Division Sandoz also reported  dynamic  growth,  especially  in the US. The successful launches of several new “difficult- to-make”  generics, which provide  Sandoz a competitive  advantage,  underpinned  the strong     expansion.     Operating     income improved  much  faster than net sales, ben- efiting  from  sustained  increases  in  sales volumes and productivity initiatives.

The  Consumer Health  Division  delivered a  good  performance,   as  both  OTC (non- prescription medicines)  and Animal Health achieved attractive growth thanks to a com- mon  focus  on  strategic   brands   and  the launch  of new products  as well  as expan- sion  in  Japan and  emerging  growth  mar- kets. CIBA Vision improved  its net sales, and in  particular  operating  income,  following the resumption of deliveries  in 2007  after some recent  product  shortages. Operating income for the Division improved  and sup- ported   significant   R&D  investments   and geographic expansion.

The overall good performance in a diffi- cult environment confirms that we are on the  right  strategic  path.  The  events  of
2007  have made  clear  the  advantages  of our strategy  centered  on focused diversifi- cation. We are active in fast-growing  areas of  the  healthcare  market  while  reducing risks, such as over-dependence  on govern- ment-regulated pricing for medicines or the actions of regulatory  agencies.

Despite the current industry  challenges, the healthcare   sector’s   future   continues   to promise  robust  growth.  The growing  need for medical  services and medicines  is driv- en above all by the following  factors:

?  First and foremost  is the aging of the world’s population. The incidence  of

chronic  and degenerative diseases, such as arthritis,  high blood pressure, cancer and, of course, dementia,  rises with age. An estimated  80% of people over age
80 suffer from  at least one disease, and more than 60% have two or more condi- tions. The entry of the “baby  boomer” generation  into retirement ? the first members  reached the traditional retire- ment age in 2007  ? will further  support  this trend.

?  Younger generations  are also being impacted  by health-related changes in society. Changes in dietary  habits and an increasingly  sedentary lifestyle are having an impact.  The number  of over- weight people is not only rising in the US but also in Europe and many devel- oping countries. Negative health conse- quences linked to obesity are becoming
increasingly  visible, especially cardiovas- cular disease and diabetes. At the same time, environmental pollution is causing more cases of cancer and pulmonary disease.

?  Strong economic growth in emerging markets with large populations,  particu-  larly China, India and Russia, has led to rapid  expansion of the middle  class and greater demands for better healthcare services.

?  Finally, new technological discoveries and trends are continuously enabling the development  of innovative medicines to address a range of diseases that previ- ously could not be adequately treated.

Although    these   developments    reaffirm  prospects for rising demand  for healthcare and our products,  a number  of  challenges exist:

?  Increased pressure on costs: Political resistance to high-price  medicines  is likely to grow throughout the world as 
the overall cost of healthcare  keeps ris- ing. Although  doctors, pharmacies  and hospitals will not be able to escape political  pressures, the pharmaceuticals industry  unduly  suffers due to its status as the most visible and tangible  partici-  pant in the healthcare system. This makes us an easy scapegoat for rising costs.

?  Erosion of patent rights: Our industry  has recently found itself confronted  by aggressive behavior from  certain gener- ics manufacturers. Some have launched copies of medicines  before the expiry of patents because they consider these patents to be contestable, and in many instances courts have not yet stepped in to stop them.

?  Growing mistrust: The pharmaceuticals industry  has faced for some time a con- servative attitude  from  the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which appears to be a reaction to public  criti- cism. This conservatism  is reflected in the agency’s demands for growing vol- umes of data aimed at guaranteeing  an unparalleled  degree of safety. In the long term, this approach  will be detrimental
to medical  progress since it is simply not possible to provide medicines  that are completely  free of side effects in all patients. The benefits and risks of any treatment  must in the end be weighed individually by the physician  and patient.

A strategy  ignoring  these trends, which  to some extent overlap and are at times  con- tradictory, will fail sooner rather  than later. We are convinced that our diversified  port- folio ? yet one focused on growth  areas of healthcare  ? ideally  positions  Novartis  for the future and reduces risks. We have been steadfast in pursuing  this strategy in recent years, for example, by purchasing  Chiron in
2006  as well as by divesting the remaining  non-core nutrition businesses in 2007.

The  most  decisive  factor  remains  our strength  in  innovation. Our  overall  per- formance in gaining new product  approvals was positive. It goes without  saying that the delays  in  approvals  for  Galvus have been particularly disappointing. It is important, nonetheless,  to recognize  the  overall  suc- cesses during the year. Novartis received six positive regulatory  decisions in the US and nine in the EU (15 positive decisions out of a total of 17). These included  approvals for Rasilez/Tekturna  and   Exforge (high   blood pressure),  Exelon Patch  (Alzheimer’s   dis- ease) and Aclasta/Reclast (osteoporosis)  in the  US and  Europe.  In  addition,  Lucentis (“wet”  age-related macular  degeneration, a leading  cause  of  blindness)   and  Sebivo/ Tyzeka (hepatitis  B) were both  approved  in Europe. In the third quarter, Galvus received European approval as a new oral treatment  option  for patients  with type 2 diabetes. At the end of 2007, the US and EU both grant- ed approvals  for Tasigna as a new medicine  for patients  with chronic  myeloid  leukemia no longer responding  to Gleevec/ Glivec.

Novartis is widely recognized as having one of the  industry’s most  attractive  develop- ment pipelines. Research and Development activities are focused  in particular on car- diovascular  and metabolic  diseases, oncol- ogy  and  neurology  as well  as respiratory  and    infectious    diseases.   Our   portfolio  includes  140  projects  in  clinical  develop- ment, more  than ever before. Several late- stage   projects   are  progressing   on  track toward    regulatory    submissions.    These include     FTY720     (multiple    sclerosis), QAB149  (respiratory   diseases),  RAD001 (cancer), ACZ885 (Muckle-Wells syndrome)  and SOM230  (Cushing’s disease).

Breakthroughs  have  also  been  achieved in  Sandoz  and  Vaccines and  Diagnostics: Thanks to improvements in innovation  and productivity,  Sandoz has strengthened  its leading   position   in   bringing   difficult-to- make  generics  to  the  market.   European

approval  was granted  in 2007  for epoetin alfa ? a further  milestone  following  the US approval  of the growth hormone  Omnitrope in 2006 as the world’s first follow-on version of  a  previously   approved   biotechnology drug.  As  an  affordable,  high-quality  bio- generic, epoetin alfa could be used to pro- vide  benefits   to  approximately  250 000 patients  in Europe.

In 2007,  Vaccines and Diagnostics  gained European  approval  for  the new pandemic  flu vaccine Focetria. Novartis  also gained a leading position  in cell-culture  flu vaccines with   the   European   approval   of  Optaflu, which  utilizes  new technologies  represen- ting   the   most   important  innovation    in influenza  vaccine  manufacturing in  more than 50 years.

Innovation is our core competency ? this comprises the development of novel med- icines and the creation of new R&D strate- gies.  Driven  by the  increasing  number  of therapeutic    proteins   discovered   by   our researchers, we established a new “Biologics” R&D unit in 2007  to unify our core capabil- ities in biologics within  one group.

It takes courage during uncertain times to follow your own path and be true to your convictions, rather than just keeping an anxious eye on competition. Novartis  has steadfast positions and stands by them. Our points  of view often  do not  win popularity contests. The tendency toward group think- ing has sometimes been confused with the practice  of “benchmarking.” This approach can  often  lead  to  errors  in  judgment.   In such a situation, one rarely has the courage to review a situation  objectively, draw conclusions and also take responsibility.

One  of  the  fundamental  aspects  of  the Novartis culture  is being true to our values, ensuring  that  we remain  committed ulti- mately to the needs of patients while engaging in social and political  debates. It is critical to differentiate between legitimate  discussions about  healthcare  costs and those that   appear   to   address   this   issue   but instead actually mask hostility  toward innovation.

Pressure on healthcare  prices  is simply  a reality  that  must  be  accepted.  Given  the demographic  trends,  one  can  appreciate the  cost  reduction   efforts.  But  there  is  a limit,  and crossing  it endangers  incentives needed to drive  innovation.  Going beyond this   limit    would   have   dramatic    conse- quences,  massively  weakening  long-term investments   that   have   led   to   historical  advances in medicine. Progress is only pos- sible in an environment that values innova- tion.  I personally  feel  the level of hostility  toward innovation  goes too far when indus- trialized countries take for granted that they have the  healthiest  populations in the his- tory   of  mankind   but   at  the  same  time demand  breakthrough medicines  with  no side effects and offered at minimal prices.

Aging societies are precisely those that can neither  support  such  ill-considered views toward  innovation  nor  the  political  condi- tions  that  facilitate  them.  On the contrary, aging  societies  must  embrace  innovation. One of the most urgent challenges in many critical  markets  for Novartis  is the cost of healthcare, coupled with overall care of the elderly. Concern for the healthcare needs of the elderly  could  be reasonably  addressed through  innovation,  especially if one even- tually  wants to  avoid rationing.  One inter- esting    example    is    the    link    between Alzheimer’s   disease  and  the  rise  in  life expectancy. If an effective treatment  is not found,  the costs of treating  and caring  for these  patients  could  quickly  skyrocket  to absolutely  unaffordable levels. The annual costs of caring for the estimated five million  people in the US with  Alzheimer’s  disease already represents about USD 150 billion of the  nation’s  healthcare  budget.  Consider

the  implications  of  estimates  forecasting the  number   of  patients   will   rise  to  an unimaginable 100 million  in 2025.

One  would   surmise   that   society   would encourage research into these types of dis- eases, creating  more  attractive  rewards for those  who  make  significant   R&D  invest- ments. This might seem counter-intuitive at first,  but  from  a long-term  perspective  it could be the only viable approach.

Another  development  eroding  the  vital culture  of  innovation is  the  increasing aversion  to  any  conceivable  risk.   This reflects  several societal trends, and mani- fests itself  mainly  in relation  to our  prod- ucts. Let me be clear:  No  medicine  exists today that is completely  free of side effects in all patients. Of course, this poses a dilem-  ma   for   those   involved   ?  doctors   and patients.  During  my  time  as a  physician  working in hospitals, I was confronted  every day by  this  dilemma.  I still  firmly  believe that  one of the core capabilities  of physi- cians is to take responsibility for decisions that involve their patients. When regulatory  agencies take over these responsibilities,  as is  increasingly   the  case  in  the  US, then healthcare   policies   will   move   toward   a patronizing system  where  physicians  and the  pharmaceuticals  industry   are  viewed with  distrust  instead  of as important part- ners. These developments  oppose the con- sistent demand for industry  and individuals  to take more responsibility for their actions, coupled  with a corresponding reduction  in the role of governments. Strict control  sys- tems are appropriate and important ? and opinions should not differ on this point. But excessive anxiety will slow the pace of med- ical progress over the long term, and lead to suffering that will impact  our entire society.

A    sustained    commitment    to    social responsibility is a fundamental value of Novartis. Our actions in corporate citizenship are too critical to be linked to business
cycles. Last year,  for example, our access- to-medicine programs  reached  66  million  patients worldwide, with contributions total- ing USD 937 million  and representing  about
2.5%  of annual  net sales from  continuing operations.

Important Novartis  initiatives  are focused on neglected  diseases, especially  malaria, leprosy, dengue fever and treatment-resist- ant tuberculosis.  In 2007  in more  than 40
African countries, Novartis provided 66 mil- lion treatments  of the anti-malaria medicine  Coartem below costs, which  saved an esti- mated  200 000  lives, a majority  of which were children. Moreover, annual production capacity  has  been  ramped  up  to  deliver
100 million  treatments  of Coartem.

I would  also like to take an opportunity to provide an industry  perspective as well: An impressive  1.3 billion  health-related inter- ventions  ? ranging  from  medicines  to vac- cines and disease awareness campaigns  ? worth  billions  of  dollars  were  distributed between   2000   and  2006   in  developing countries  considered  to  be  of  little  com- mercial  interest.

Attracting the best talent from around the world is critical for a global company like Novartis,  ensuring  that  associates feel respected  and  are  recognized for  their contributions. Ensuring  equal  opportuni- ties, fairness and mutual  respect are a sine qua non in a world that, in business terms, is growing ever closer together. Our Diversity
& Inclusion  Advisory Council  (DIAC), com- prised  of nine external experts with  differ- ent cultural, ethnic and social backgrounds, supports  the  objective  of  building teams that are both diverse and talented. The DIAC will further  strengthen  our competitiveness  by  reinforcing the importance of an inclu- sive  environment  ?  not  only  among  our associates   but   also   in   interaction  with
patients  and  other  interest  groups.  I have
been personally following the progress of the DIAC members,  and I am deeply impressed by their engagement and contributions.

Novartis  has long  been committed to the principles  of sustainability,  encompassing  more  than just environmental protection  ? and long before this issue found  its way to the forefront  ? as one of the first signatories of the UN Global Compact. A key aspect of our corporate  culture  is ensuring appropri- ate  use  of  energy  and  other   resources. Three years ago, Novartis made a voluntary commitment to reduce its greenhouse-gas emissions to levels mandated  by the Kyoto Protocol. The improvements in energy effi- ciency have already exceeded expectations. Sustainability is a prominent feature of the Novartis  Campus  at  our  headquarters   in Basel. A key  objective  is to use renewable energy on the Campus  and eliminate  CO2 emissions in the medium term. The chang- ing  composition of  the  worldwide  vehicle fleet is also contributing to these objectives: A  10%   reduction    in   CO2     emissions   is expected by 2010  through the replacement  of  older  vehicles  with  new  ones  utilizing  hybrid   technology   or  diesel  motors   with micro-particle filters.

I am particularly pleased that our commit- ment   to  sustainability  of  all  forms   was acknowledged in 2007  with the selection of Novartis as a “sustainability leader”  in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, a worldwide  rating  of companies  according  to econom- ic, environmental and social factors.

This engagement in corporate responsi- bility  ?  and  actually  the  success story of Novartis ? would not have been possi- ble  without  a  consistent focus on  per- formance and results. As a global compa- ny,    we    have    consistently     considered challenging   periods   as  opportunities  to review how we work and to pursue improve-
ments. The initiatives announced in the sec-
ond  half  of  2007  involve  innovation,  effi- ciency and leadership. Beyond the creation of the new Biologics  unit,  two other  initia- tives will help us more quickly  achieve our objectives:

?  Project Step-up is designed to improve the effectiveness of drug development: We want to strengthen  our project teams, integrate decision-making under
the leadership  of experienced colleagues at the franchise level and simplify  development  processes.

?  A Group-wide initiative  called “Forward” is underway to simplify  our structures, accelerate and decentralize  decision- making processes, and redesign the
way Novartis operates, while at the same time providing  productivity gains. Although  the results of internal  surveys show Novartis performs  in almost
all aspects better than comparable  companies, they also show many associates feel the organization  is too complex  and could benefit from simplification. Given these perspectives, we have taken this opportunity both
to streamline  our organization  and to redefine the way we work.

Coping with change is never easy, especially when jobs are affected. However, it would be fatal if we were to ignore significant  indus- try  changes taking  place. Only by taking  a proactive  approach   can  we  improve   our competitiveness.

Last year,  some  leadership  changes  were also made to broaden experience at the top management   level  and  to  provide   fresh impetus  to  our  business.  Switching  posi- tions,  Joseph  Jimenez  became   Head  of the Pharmaceuticals Division  and Thomas Ebeling took over as Head of the Consumer Health Division.


As a shareholder, you are naturally inter- ested in the performance of our company. Since its creation in 1996, Novartis has pro- vided  on average a total  annual  return  of
9.9% to shareholders, more than the returns of most  large pharmaceutical companies. Our earnings per share have risen approxi- mately   80%   during   the  last  five  years, while the annual dividend  payout has risen on average 11%  during  the  same period. Unfortunately,  these  improvements  have not  been reflected  in the share price, and this  is not  something  to gloss over.  At the same time, our fundamentals remain strong and are reflected in the twelfth  consecutive year  of  record  results  achieved  in  2007 despite significant  challenges.

Indeed, the  pharmaceuticals industry  has suffered  from  a period  of overall devalua- tion in market capitalization.  The industry’s price/earnings ratios  only a few years ago ranged  from  between 25  to 30, but  many have since collapsed to between 10 and 15. This broad devaluation indicates that finan- cial  markets  have viewed  pharmaceutical stocks with suspicion for some time, based on  reasons  already  discussed.  However,  I believe  the  emphasis  is far  too  much  on challenges than on opportunities. In turbu- lent  times,  investors  have often  turned  to the pharmaceuticals sector; a downturn  in the   economy   will   offer   pharmaceutical stocks an opportunity to again be seen as valuable investments.

We are now preparing for a new growth cycle. The results  in the first  half of 2008  will be negatively impacted  by a weak per- formance  in the Pharmaceuticals Division, particularly in the US. This period  will  be used  to  further  improve  productivity and efficiency.

Thanks  to  new product  launches  and  the strength of our flagship products  Diovan and Gleevec/Glivec,   a   new   growth   cycle   in

Pharmaceuticals is also expected to emerge in the second half of 2008.

Cautious optimism seems appropriate for
2008:  One must remember that the indus- try  is  facing  a  more  volatile  phase  than experienced in the past. I am confident that I speak for all Novartis associates in saying we all are well aware that greater efforts will be needed for success as compared to the past.

Even when considering  the challenges and setbacks, we look to the future  with  confi- dence. My conviction  that  2008  will  be  a successful year is based on our long-term strategy,    well-acknowledged    innovation  capabilities,  operational  excellence and the courage to act independently.

In  times  like  these, marked  by  uncertain  dynamics    and   fundamental   changes,   I would  like to thank  our  associates,  whose outstanding performances  have once again helped  Novartis  achieve a record  perform- ance  in  a  very  challenging  environment.  These   particularly   valuable   efforts   are anchored in our shared purpose of improv-  ing the lives of patients.

In closing, I would like to once again express my appreciation  to you, our shareholders, for the trust you continue  to place in Novartis.

Sincerely,



Daniel Vasella, M.D.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Novartis 2008

DEAR SHAREHOLDER

I am pleased that despite the global ?nancial crisis  and  the  early  signs  of a worldwide  recession   that   marked   2008,   Novar tis achieved record  results  both  in sales and operating income of its continuing business.

Our diversi?ed healthcare portfolio  strategy underpinned our success in a dif?cult envi- ronment. Especially gratifying are the accel- erated sales and improved  ef?ciency of our Pharmaceuticals Division. Our newly launched medicines  are transforming  our  portfolio and more  than  made  up for the loss of a number of products in the previous  year. Vaccines  and   Diagnostics   continued  to show  dynamic   grow th,  whereas  grow th slowed  in  our  generics  Division  Sandoz. Consumer Health achieved its targets.

On a comparable  basis, excluding the sales and operating income of the nutrition busi- nesses  we  divested  in  2007,  the  Group results were:

?  Net sales from continuing  operations rose
9% (+5% in local currencies) to USD 41.5 billion.

?  Operating  income  grew 32%  to USD 9.0
billion.

?  Net income  rose 25%  to USD 8.2 billion
and basic earnings  per share increased
28% to USD 3.59.

The performance of the Pharmaceuticals Division  exceeded the expectations  of the market  and increased  net sales by  5% in local  currencies  to USD 26.3  billion.  This growth was realized not only in new markets, but  also in Europe,  where key  products  ? most notably in Oncology ? posted double- digit growth rates.

The successful market launches of more than
11 products  in the United States, European Union,  and  around  the  world  contributed USD 2.9 billion to net sales in 2008. In addition  to sustained growth of our antihypertensives  and cancer medicines, the most successful innovative  new products include  Aclasta/ Reclast (USD 254  million),  the only osteo- porosis  treatment given  in  a once-yearly dose,  and Lucentis (USD 886  million),  the only treatment proven  to preserve and,  in some cases, improve the eyesight of patients with age-related macular  degeneration.

The  Vaccines and  Diagnostics Division achieved dynamic  growth  in net sales and continued  to make signi?cant  investments in  the development of the new meningitis vaccines Menveo (serogroups  A , C,  W-135 and Y) and MenB (serogroup  B), as well as other innovative vaccines. Millions of infants and young people could bene?t  from  both Menveo and  MenB,  as tens  of thousands currently die of meningitis every year, while many  sur vivors  suffer  from  severe long- term consequences.

In  the  generic  pharmaceuticals  Division Sandoz, net sales grew by 1% in local cur- rencies to USD 7.6 billion. Sandoz presents a mixed picture. Growth was slower than in previous years. Outstanding sales increases in important growth markets such as Russia, Brazil, and Central and Eastern Europe, are in sharp  contrast  to declining  sales in the United  States  and  some  West European countries. Delays in new launches and price erosion are the main reasons for stagnation in these markets. In Germany, Sandoz is the leading  generics  company  and  is gaining further  market  share.  As a result  of price cuts, however, the market has contracted  and competition has become  tougher.  On the positive side, Sandoz is in a pole position in biosimilars.  In the future,  it will be crucial 
that we are the ?rst to launch new products and that Sandoz further  extends its leading position  in biosimilars.

With increased net sales of 4% in local cur- rencies  to USD 5.8 billion,  the Consumer Health  Division met  its  targets  and  also gained  market  share in several segments. The most  important driver  of growth  was CIBA Vision, which ? under new leadership
? launched  a number  of new products  and resolved its prior  supply and delivery chal- lenges.  Animal  Health  also  achieved  good results, especially in the companion-animal business, but its farm-animal business was negatively affected by the recession. OTC is expanding rapidly  in the emerging markets and in Japan. But, like other manufacturers of OTC brands, the business struggled with the   economic   downturn  in   the   United States.

We  achieved our  strong overall  perfor- mance in 2008  against a background that remains dif?cult, despite  fundamentally robust prospects for growth. Compared to many competitors, however, our strategy of focused  diversi?cation in healthcare  puts us  in  a  better  position   to  capitalize   on growth  opportunities in a number  of mar- kets and,  at the same time,  to spread  our risks. It is interesting  to note that our port- folio  strateg y now  enjoys  broad  suppor t and that a growing number of major pharma- ceutical  companies  are  also  investing  in generic pharmaceuticals.

It is gradually  becoming  clear that, like all entrenched  dogmas, the usual comparison  of companies  that  are “pure  plays”  with so-called “conglomerates” fails to present the  real  streng ths  and  weaknesses.  It  is obvious that a strategy of unfocused diversi- ?cation is bad, because you are in unfamiliar territory up against competitors  with a much stronger concentration on core competen-  cies.  However,  I believe  that  Novartis  has

pursued  a different  path,  one of focused diversi?cation that also allows us to develop our core business, which both differentiates  us and adds value.

Thanks to our  strategy,  in 2008,  Novartis stayed  on  course  and  completed several targeted  acquisitions and  strategic  invest- ments that both strengthened  the portfolio  and enhanced  our  internal  growth  drivers. For example, Novartis acquired a 25% stake in Alcon, the world  leader in eye care. This transaction is part of an agreement that offers Novartis the opportunity to acquire a majority  holding in Alcon.

With the purchase of Protez Pharmaceuticals, a privately owned US biotechnology company, Novartis  acquired  the rights  to  PTZ601 in Europe  and  the  United  States.  This  ver y promising antibiotic in Phase II development  has the  potential  to  treat  life-threatening nosocomial  infections.

Novartis also acquired  Speedel Holding  AG, a company in which we already had a minor- ity  stake.  This  essentially  allowed  us  to acquire all the rights to Tek turna/Rasilez.

Despite cost pressures, the demand  for medicines and treatments will neverthe- less continue to rise. This demand will be driven by the following  factors:

?  An  aging  world  population  with  an increased need for medical  care. This continuing trend  is important  because, after age 55, there is an exponential  rise in chronic disorders such as degenerative diseases of the joints, the cardiovascular  system, and the central nervous system. The risk of cancer also increases with age. The impact of disease also heightens with advancing  age due to co-morbidity.  For example, over 80% of 80-year-olds suffer from at least one disease, and more than 60% suffer from two or more diseases. 

?  Unhealthy lifestyles and environmental pollution  increase  the  frequency  of chronic diseases. Changes in eating habits and lifestyles that include very little exer- cise,  as well as pollution ? especially  air pollution ? are taking  their  toll in obesity, chronic cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, cancer and lung diseases.

?  Economic growth in emerging markets with improved access to medicines. Eco- nomic growth that ? despite the ?nancial crisis ? remains relatively robust in coun- tries with large populations such as China, creates disproportionately high growth in demand  for  better  healthcare  in  these countries.

?  Scienti?c and technological advances allow new approaches  in drug  research that create the foundation for innovative medicines    for    hither to    untreatable diseases.

The  cost  increases  associated  with  the growing  demand  for  healthcare  services, diagnostics  and medicines  lead to political activities  aimed  at reducing  expenditures on  medicines,  via  price  reductions  and generic  substitution.  Unfortunately,  these efforts go even further and also encompass attempts to weaken patents and intellectual  property. This increases the risk that long- term investment in research and development  will decline. Effective medicines  ultimately offer the most cost-ef?cient  treatment for a patient and for lowering costs for the health- care system.  The weakening  of protection for innovation  with potential  curtailment of research  and  development,  will  not  lower costs in the long run, but  will instead lead to massive increases in costs ? not to mention  the human  suffering. In short, the best way of reducing  the long-term  costs of health- care is to provide incentives for sustainable investment  in  successful   research   and development.  Without   better   prevention

and innovative medicines, the costs of treat- ing patients  with  cardiovascular  diseases, cancer, diabetes or dementia ? not to mention  other diseases ? will skyrocket.

The  past year  was marked  by a severe ?nancial crisis and recession. The recession will likely intensify over the current year and leave deep scars on the economy  and the sociopolitical climate. The healthcare sector will not be spared, although it is considered a defensive sector and generally much less affected  by  economic  factors  than  other industries. The pressure on prices will con- tinue  to increase  because  public  funding  (and  in  many  countries  also private  bud- gets) will be constrained  by dramatic  levels of debt.  This year we  expect new policies from the incoming US administration, which wants  not  only  to  provide  all  its  citizens access to medical care, but also to stem the rising costs of its healthcare system.

To provide cost-effective healthcare, all sys- tems around  the world must  achieve three goals: quality  assurance  in diagnosis  and treatment,  access to all essential medical  services and medicines, and ?nancial  sus- tainability.  This requires  greater  transpar-  ency and comparability of treatment  results with standardized treatment methods, mea- surement, databases and information tech- nology systems. There has been little mean- ingful  progress  to date in these areas not only because systemic  analysis and plan- ning  have  been lacking,  but  also because politicians have been focused on short-term success. Moreover, there are many groups who   are   resistant   to   any  fundamental change in healthcare.

Criticism  of markets  and corporations will likely  increase  over  the  next  few  years, extending among some, to a questioning  of the principles  of a free-market economy and capitalism.  One thing  is certain:  The state has positioned itself as the only actor capable

of  engendering   trust  amidst  the  current  ?nancial  crisis. There is a risk of a growing belief in state intervention, and the tempta- tion  to  extend  the  capacity  and  scope of state responsibility in naive and dangerous ways. This is also true in the ?eld of corpo- rate governance. We have witnessed a shift in power from management  to the board of directors, and then from the board of direc- tors  to  shareholder  activists.  Lawmakers are increasingly in?uenced by activists who seek to restrict  the actions of corporations, their  owners  and  their  representatives.  I question  whether  these pressures  reduce risks. They do, however, curtail the freedom of companies  ? a  disturbing development
? even if it stems from the best of intentions.

Optimism for the future and faith in progress will erode if freedom  and risk are increas- ingly  associated with  chaos and failure. In a fast-moving  modern  world, some believe that  restrictions  promise  order  and there- fore  engender  a  feeling  of  securit y  and protection. This is a fallacy. The erection of walls ? either intellectual  or economic  ones
? only further heightens the crisis. It is more important than ever before, that we endorse open markets, multilateralism and embrace a point of view that sees the opportunities of globalization  and not only the threats. In a society in which control and order are val- ued most highly, a mentality  of entitlement, coupled with hostility to reform and innova- tion will triumph.

Society has every reason to believe in the power of innovation. Over the last 40 years, we have witnessed  a signi?cant  reduction  in  mor tality  due  to  numerous  diseases. Deaths resulting  from  rheumatic fever and rheumatic  hear t  disease  have  fallen  by more  than 60%, while deaths from  hyper- tensive  and  ischemic  hear t  disease have fallen by more  than  40%.  There has been impressive progress in reducing the number  of patients who die from cancer. The results 
are especially  striking  in children,  as over the last 25 years, mortality has more than halved. Moreover, medicines are responsible for  40%  of the  increased  life  expectancy and have helped to reduce chronic disability  in seniors by 25% over the last 25 years.

Our pipeline continues  to make encourag- ing  progress,  and  this  success  not  only gives me cause for optimism, but is also in line  with  our  corporate  social  mission.  In research, Mark Fishman and his team have discovered many  new biologic  targets and
93 highly promising  new molecular entities. For the ?rst time, promising  new compounds  for  the  treatment of  motor  disturbances associated with brain disease, cancers and bone metastases that are dif?cult to treat, metabolic  disorders, and juvenile rheuma- toid arthritis  have entered clinical trials. Our scientists  are  currently  engaged  in  152 projects  in various stages of clinical  devel- opment.  These  include   our  new  cancer medicine   A?nitor   (everolimus,   formerly RAD001). In patients with advanced kidney cancer who did  not respond  to any of the standard   treatments,   this   product  has shown a 70%  decrease in the risk of pro- gression.  Fur ther  indications  are  under investigation. Also highly promising are the clinical results reported with FTY720, a tablet for the treatment of  multiple sclerosis,  as well as the results of QAB149 for the treatment  of chronic  obstructive  pulmonary disease.

In 2008, Novartis was the only pharmaceu-  tical company  with three medicines  under priority review by the  US Food and  Drug Administration. In addition  to A?nitor, these included Gleevec/Glivec as adjuvant therapy in  gastrointestinal stromal  tumors  (GIST ) and  Coar tem  for  malaria.  In  December
2008, the FDA approved Gleevec/Glivec for this additional indication. In this context, it is important to note that, for some time, US authorities have followed much more rigorous safety requirements, and it is impossible  to

predict  timing   or  chances  for  regulator y approvals of new medicines.

Payor in?uence  over medical  decisions  in Europe and in the United  States has been growing.  These customers   place  greater emphasis on evidence that new treatments  of fer  bet ter  results  and  improved  cost / bene?t ratios.

As investments in research and development  increase   and   pressure   on  drug   prices becomes more intense, ef?cient cost man- agement becomes even more important. To achieve our objectives, we need to further  streamline  our organization  and processes so that decisions can be made more quickly and be more systematically  implemented.

In the context of the economic  uncertainty and  volatility   of  the  global  market,  it  is increasingly clear that we took the right step in   launching   the  For ward   initative.   We exceeded our  own savings targets  and,  in some  cases,  we  also  fostered   renewed growth. Our aim is to save USD 1.6 billion  by 2010.  The initiative  also enabled  us to simplify our  organizational structure and accelerate decision-making processes.

Our business success allows us to continue our corporate social responsibility activities. With our unique malaria and leprosy programs, we  have  provided  more  than  200  million treatments  since 2001  and helped to save the lives of more than 500 000 people.

Last year,  we also launched  the  Novar tis Vaccines Institute for Global Health (NVGH), a nonpro?t research institute  in Siena, Italy, dedicated  to the development of vaccines for patients in developing countries.

Our commitment to patients  is an integral part of our strategy. The same is true of the ethical principles  anchored  in the Novartis corporate  culture.  I am most  pleased that

The Dow Jones Sustainability Index recog- nized Novartis as healthcare “super sector leader”  in  2008.  The  indispensibility  of these  principles has  become  even  more clear over the last few months  as we are all burdened  by the irresponsibility of certain actors  in  the  ?nancial   sector  which  has deeply harmed  the global economy.

The promotion of talented leaders to key management  positions   is  critical   to  the future success of the company. In November, Joerg Reinhardt  assumed the new position  of Group Chief Operating Of?cer reporting  to  me.  Joerg  Reinhardt  is  succeeded  as Head of Vaccines and Diagnostics by Andrin Oswald,  previously   CEO of  Speedel  and Global Head of Pharmaceutical Development  Franchises in Pharmaceutical Development. The  Board  also  appointed George  Gunn Head of the Consumer  Health  Division,  in addition to his role as Head of Animal Health. He replaces Thomas Ebeling, who decided to pursue his career outside Novartis. During his tenure  with  Novartis,  Thomas  Ebeling made outstanding contributions, and I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere  thanks  to him.  Andreas  Rummelt  assumed   the  newly  created  position   of Group Head of Quality Assurance and Tech- nical Operations and remains  a member of the  Novar tis  E xecutive  Commit tee.  Jef f George, formerly Head of Emerging Markets in the Pharmaceuticals  Division, is the new Head of Sandoz. David Epstein now heads a new unit  focused on the development  of innovative molecular diagnostics in addition  to his responsibility as Head of Oncolog y.

William  George,  member  of the  Board  of Directors, has decided not to stand for re- election at the next Annual General Meeting. At this meeting, the Board of Directors will pro- pose that Dr. William Brody be elected to the Board  of Directors.  Dr.  Brody  served until  recently as president of Johns Hopkins Univer- sity and is now president of the Salk Institute.

As a shareholder, you are naturally inter- ested in the further development of our company. Our  ten-year  total  shareholder  return, including dividends, which we have continuously increased, and business spin- offs,  surpasses that  of  the global  market, the pharmaceutical industry  index, and the performance of key competitors. The tumul-  tuous  stock  market  of 2008  also made  it clear that we are seen as a defensive stock delivering  strong  per formance.  This  view has  been  suppor ted  by  the  fact  that  we managed to weather the ?nancial crisis and remain intact both operationally  and in our investment  activities thanks to our conser- vative strategy focused on sustainability.

In 2009 we anticipate another year of record results in  net  sales and  earnings.  All the elements for success are in place: products, resources, creative thinking, a determination to succeed through  an even greater  focus on our customers, as well as a competent  management  team that is distinguished by ambition and integrity.

I expect Joe Jimenez and the management  team  of  the  Pharmaceuticals Division  to take advantage of the strong performance in the years ahead by investing in research and  development,  growth   products   and strategic  markets.  This  will help to ensure that  the  Pharmaceuticals Division  is pre- pared for the challenging period after 2012, when we can expect generic competition for our top-selling product  Diovan. Our focused diversi?cation strategy will also provide  us with  further  growth  opportunities beyond pharmaceuticals.

There are many changes taking place at the moment,  but  one thing  remains  constant:  Patients  need  the  best  and  most  cost- ef fective medicines. I am certain that if we never lose sight of this fundamental impera- tive, we will succeed in meeting  the major challenges of the future.

I would like to thank all our associates for their excellent work, their entrepreneurial mindset  and  their  contributions  to  the achievement of our objectives. I am espe- cially  grati?ed  that  our  associates under- stand the need to reorient our organization  to a dif?cult and challenging  environment.

Finally I would like to thank you, our share- holders, for the trust you place in our com- pany. I am pleased to be able to propose an increase in the dividend to CHF 2.00 (+25%)  at the next Annual General Meeting.


Sincerely,

Daniel Vasella, M.D.
Chairman and Chief Executive Of?cer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Novartis 2009

DEAR SHAREHOLDER

I am  pleased  to report  record  results  for
2009, both in sales and in profits, despite the global economic crisis that shaped the year.

Our Pharmaceuticals Division delivered an outstanding performance during  the past year. This achievement was possible through new product growth and rejuvenation of our portfolio  ? both of which clearly bring value to  patients  and  shareholders.  Consumer Health  and Sandoz,  our  generics  division, showed  solid  growth,  accelerating  in  the fourth quarter. The Vaccines and Diagnostics Division exceeded its targets thanks to the rapid rise in demand for influenza A (H1N1) pandemic  vaccines.

The specific results were as follows:

? Net sales rose by 11% in local currencies
(+7% in US dollars) to USD 44.3 billion.

? Operating income grew 11% to USD 10.0 billion.

? Net income climbed 4% to USD 8.5 billion,
negatively influenced by currency effects, financing  costs for Alcon and exceptional costs of USD 189 million  from associated companies;  excluding  acquisition-related and significant one-off factors, net income rose 8% to USD 10.3 billion.

? Free cash flow before  dividends  showed dynamic  growth  and  reached  a level of USD 9.4 billion  (+24%).

The Pharmaceuticals Division increased its net sales 12%  in local currencies  (+8%  in US dollars) to USD 28.5 billion. This growth rate is twice the market, illustrating that we remain  one of the strongest-growing com- panies in the industry. Oncology in particular posted outstanding growth  rates: we have increased our global market  share to 11% from 7.7% in 2001, and moved from fifth to second  position  in  this  competitive field. Operating  income  grew ahead of net sales despite increasing investments  in research and  development,  and  negative  external factors, such as price-cutting measures and adverse exchange rates.

I am also pleased that we successfully reju- venated our product  portfolio. Two factors contributed to  this  accomplishment:  the global launches of new products  ? Lucentis, Exforge, Exjade, Exelon Patch, Reclast/Aclasta, Tekturna/Rasilez ? and our leukemia treatment Tasigna, which  showed clear superiority to Gleevec/Glivec in comparative studies. New products  accounted  for 16% of total sales, a significant increase from 10% the previous year. We obtained regulatory approval for a number  of important products  in 2009  ? in particular for the cancer medicine  Afinitor, which shows considerable potential, and the biological therapy Ilaris.

The   Vaccines  and   Diagnostics  Division increased sales by 39% in local currencies (+38% in US dollars) to USD 2.4 billion, and operating income reached USD 372 million.
These record results are largely due to the rapid   development  of  several  innovative influenza vaccines, in particular for protection against the influenza A (H1N1) virus. To date, nearly 50 million people have been infected, requiring exceptional  efforts  on  a global scale to contain  the pandemic. All vaccine production sites  have  been  operating   at maximum  capacit y  since   the   summer, thanks   to  unprecedented  suppor t  from hundreds of Novartis associates from other divisions.  By the end of the year,  approxi- mately 116 million  doses were delivered. To strengthen  this division, we aim to discover and develop innovative vaccines to comple- ment our influenza vaccines, which serve a cyclical public  health need. One such inno- vative  product  is  Menveo,  a  vaccine  for meningococcal  meningitis that is currently  pending regulatory  approval.

The generics division Sandoz achieved solid underlying growth (USD 7.5 billion, +5% in local currencies)  in key markets  thanks  to new product launches and increased market- ing initiatives. Operating  income  remained  nearly stable (-1%) at USD 1.1 billion. As in past years,  the  business  experienced  an annual price erosion of about 7% and was fur ther   impacted  by  adverse  exchange rates.  Despite  increases  in efficiency  and productivity,  the  impact   of  these  factors could  not  be  entirely  neutralized.  Falling sales had an impact  in Eastern European countries against the backdrop of the global economic  crisis.  However,  this  was more than offset by new product  launches and a significant increase in net sales from biosimi-  lars, especially in the US.

The Consumer Health Division felt the impact  of the global  recession  particularly in the first half of 2009. Nevertheless, the division posted a solid result: net sales grew 5% in local  currencies  to  USD 5.8  billion,  while operating   income   fell  slightly   by  3%  to 
USD 1.0  billion.  In the OTC Business Unit, we invested significantly in the largest-ever launch   campaign   for  Prevacid24HR,  our proton  pump  inhibitor.  The Prevacid24HR launch was one of the biggest prescription- to-OTC   switches   in  recent   years,   sales exceeded USD 100 million  in the few weeks following its November launch. CIBA Vision achieved stronger growth than any competi-  tor in the contact lens and lens care industry. New product  expansion  helped  accelerate solid growth in local currencies. Animal Health also grew faster than the global market.

We achieved strong 2009  results in a global market that will remain challenging for the foreseeable  future.  We must  continue   to focus all our efforts and engagement ? even more in this environment ? on adding value for patients, and, ultimately, for our company. This focus shields us from erratic, ill-consid-  ered action on one hand and from  clinging defensively to the status quo on the other ? both  would  weaken  Novartis  in  the  long term. Since Novartis was founded in 1996  we have experienced a rapid acceleration in economic   globalization  and  information flow, increasing the complexity of managing multinational companies.

In light of these developments, we will only remain successful if we continue to navigate the rapidly  changing environment with dili- gence, foresight and reflection, and venture to seize strategic  opportunities,  which  are always accompanied  by risk.

Our strategy, based on the concept of diver- sification  within  the healthcare  sector, has again proven to be the right approach in the past year. The fact that more and more com- panies are starting to imitate our strategy of focused diversification does not guarantee long-term  success ? but does indicate  that we recognized  the signs of the times  at a very early stage.

We have systematically transformed Novartis into  a company  focused clearly on growth areas of the healthcare market. Businesses in chemicals, nutrition and agribusiness, as well  as beverages  and  medical  nutrition, were spun off or sold. Other companies were added to our portfolio, including the generics manufacturers Hexal and Eon Labs, as well as the vaccines producer  Chiron, where we successfully increased our holding to 100% in 2006 and have since nearly tripled sales.

Our strong yet adaptable corporate  culture enabled the successful integration of these and other companies. Since the founding of Novartis, we have shaped our culture by pro- actively facing inevitable change with confi- dence in the future, without  ever giving up our fundamental beliefs. Intensive training and continuing  education   of  our   associates established  a  corporate  culture  based on per formance   and  results,  integrit y  and cultural  openness.

I firmly  believe that our recently  proposed merger with Alcon can result in a successful integration of the two companies. Ultimately, we aim not only to acquire the majority stake in  Alcon  from  Nestl?,  as agreed  in  April 2008, but also to integrate  Alcon fully as a new and largely independent division via a direct   merger   into  Novar tis.  This  would immediately make Novartis a world  leader in eye care. With our complementary prod- uct portfolios and synergies in research and development, Alcon and Novartis constitute  an excellent strategic fit. Given the growing medical  needs of the  aging world  popula- tion, ophthalmology is an area of dynamic  growth.

Last year we also substantially strengthened  our generics division Sandoz with the acqui- sition of EBEWE Pharma’s specialty generics business,  which  specializes  in  injectable cancer medicines.
In addition,  our  Vaccines and Diagnostics Division announced plans to acquire an 85% stake in the Chinese vaccines manufacturer Zhejiang Tianyuan. This company is a leading privately owned producer of vaccines with a large range of competitive products in China and an interesting pipeline in the field of viral and bacterial diseases.

As a global  company, our strategic  invest- ments  are influenced  by the fundamental eastward shift in the world economy. Twenty years  ago,  the  equilibrium  shifted   from Europe to the US; today, we are experiencing a shift toward Asia. China, for example, has long been  interesting  not  only as a highly dynamic  market,  but  also as a promising research hub. That is why last fall we decided to increase our investment  and the number  of  associates  at  our  research  center  in Shanghai from 160 to nearly 1 000.

China is the most important market  of the future. By 2013, sales in the pharmaceutical industry could nearly triple from their current  level of USD 25 billion to more than USD 70 billion. This would make China, in only a few years, the third-largest pharmaceutical mar- ket after the US and Japan.

We are currently witnessing the dawn of a new era. “Globalization” no longer implies “west- ernization.” A company  that acknowledges that Asia will shape our society and economy in the future  has the potential  to base its actions  on  the  ramifications of this  shift. Projects in China are typically  approached  systematically, strategically and with a long- term horizon ? in contrast to the West, where politics,  economics  and  financial  analysis are often short-term and characterized  by a hasty response to risks and opportunities.
I hope that we in the West succeed in return-
ing to the values we once embraced, such as   trust   in   the   future    and   belief   in progress.

Robust growth drivers will remain a distin- guishing characteristic of the healthcare sector in the future. There are several contributing factors:

? Demographic  changes are increasing the demand  for medical  care. Co- and multi-  morbidity are a feature  of advanced age and, without effective medicines and ade- quate  medical  care,  have a huge impact  on quality  of life.

? Chronic  diseases are more  common  not only because of aging societies, but  also because  of  lifestyle  changes.  In  China there are almost 400  million  smokers. In the US alone, the direct and indirect cost of obesity amounts to almost USD 500 billion  annually  ? not  including the cost of sec- ondary diseases such as diabetes.

? The strong and stable growth of emerging markets,  despite  the  financial   crisis,  is evident in the increased demand for medi- cines and treatments. Experience in 2009  again confirmed that demand for the best possible healthcare is outpacing economic growth in emerging markets. In the seven leading emerging  markets acknowledged by IMS (Brazil, China, India, Mexico, Russia, South Korea and Turkey), the growth fore- cast for  2010  is between  12%  and 14% and is likely  to accelerate  further  in the years to come.

? Scientific and technological  advances are creating new ways to better develop novel medicines  that  fight  diseases we cannot treat today.

At the same time, there are several opposing forces: ever stricter  regulatory  authorities, financially restrictive   payors  increasingly  aware  of  their   power,  and  governments  around  the world  trying  to reduce  health- care system costs. Price-cutting is often used
to reduce  costs in the healthcare  system; however,  cutting  prices  across  the  board does not take into account the overall goal of  improving  productivity  and  quality   in healthcare,  which  can  only  be  achieved through  transparency  and the comparison  of various treatment  methods.

Our company can meet these challenges with confidence, because our aim is to discover and develop more innovative vaccines and med- icines  for  patients.  New and better  medi- cines will continue to be appreciated by soci- ety and financially  rewarded. Nevertheless, we should be aware that we must constantly adapt our business model to changing mar- ket demands to maintain  our level of growth in the years to come.

Without  better  prevention  and  treatment, the cost of the most  prevalent  diseases in society  ? including diabetes,  cancer  and hypertension ? will triple  by the middle  of the next decade,  totaling  billions  annually for each disease area in the US alone.

Despite heated health policy controversies
? where the pharmaceutical sector some- times  serves  as  the  ideal  scapegoat  ? I remain  optimistic.  I firmly  believe society recognizes  the value of medical  progress and  that  the  majority  understands  and accepts  that  incentives  and  investments  make innovation  possible.

Against the backdrop of cost pressure and inherent skepticism facing the pharmaceutical sector, innovation is more important than ever. Novartis is in a strong position. Our consistent investments  in research and development, made  regardless  of  business  cycle  pres- sures, are paying off: Novartis has one of the most competitive  pipelines  in the pharma-  ceutical industry with 145 projects in devel- opment.  Sixty  of these are new molecular  entities. Since the turn of the millennium we 
have received more Food and Drug Admin- istration  approvals  than  our  competitors, outperforming them year after year.

In 2009, our company  received more than 30 positive decisions from regulatory author- ities in the US,  EU and Japan,  including a record number  of six approvals in Japan for Rasilez, Tasigna,  Xolair,  Co-Dio,  Lucentis and Clozaril. Furthermore, in January 2010, Equa (local brand  name for Galvus), Exforge and Afinitor were approved in Japan, the world’s second-largest   pharmaceutical  market. Additional  approvals  include  Afinitor (can- cer) in the US and EU; Ilaris (CAPS), Extavia (multiple sclerosis), and combination prod- ucts  Valturna,  Exforge HCT and Rasilez (all hypertension), in the US. Regulatory author- ities are currently  reviewing QAB149 for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,  the  highly   innovative   medicine  FTY720 for treatment of multiple sclerosis and the novel vaccine Menveo.

Even in a difficult global economic environment we continue to extend our engagement in the area of corporate social responsibility. The current global economic situation is a litmus  test for the social responsibility of companies: Who is taking action and who is merely talk- ing? Since the founding of Novartis, we have always viewed  social  responsibility as an integral part of our corporate  strategy and acted accordingly. In 2009  we spent about USD 1.5 billion (which is again 3% of our net sales)  on  programs   aimed   at  providing patients in need with access to our medicines, and on research to discover  new vaccines and medicines for developing countries.

I would like to emphasize that our primary  purpose as a pharmaceutical company is to discover  and  develop  effective  medicines and successfully bring  them  to market. By doing this, we make an indispensable  con- tribution to help alleviate suffering, improve patients’ quality  of life and even save lives;

we also make a major  contribution toward lowering the direct and indirect  cost of dis- ease. It is the responsibility of governments, on the other hand, to provide for the welfare of  their  citizens  including  a  functioning healthcare   system.  For  this  reason,  we remain  convinced that any access solution can only  have a sustainable  impact  when governments,  international organizations, local aid groups and the private sector col- laborate ? managing  the complexity  would be overwhelming  for any one stakeholder.

Our  engagement  in  malaria  provides  an example. We supply our malaria  treatment Coartem to affected countries without profit, in cooperation  with the World Health Orga- nization  (WHO), the  United  Nations  Chil- dren’s Fund (UNICEF), state health authori-  ties and private aid organizations. To date, Novartis has supplied 300 million  Coartem treatments, helping to save the lives of about 750 000 people suffering from malaria.

Since 2000  we have also supplied  leprosy patients worldwide with the medicines they need free of charge in partnership with the WHO. Through the end of 2009, these dona- tions,  totaling  USD 60  million,  have cured more than 4.5 million patients.

The successful campaign against leprosy is a public  health  milestone.  In  the  last  two decades, more than 14 million people have been cured, resulting  in a 95% decrease in leprosy   cases  worldwide.   Novar tis   has played  a crucial  part  in  ensuring  that  this terrible disease, which has been the scourge of humankind for centuries, could be eradi- cated in the near future. Only three countries
? Brazil, Timor-Leste and Nepal ? have more than one in 10 000 people with leprosy.

Our associates are gratified  by our contribu- tions in the fight against leprosy and malaria, and of course, as our shareholders, you too can take pride in these achievements. These 
successes are acknowledged by the WHO, as well as many nongovernmental organizations that do not always view us favorably. These stakeholders also recognize our commitment to researching new medicines and vaccines for diseases common in developing countries, which is the goal of our nonprofit research institutes  in Siena, Italy, and Singapore.

We also recognize our responsibility in envi- ronmental issues. In 2005  we were among the first  signatories  of the Kyoto Protocol, which established binding targets for reductions  in  CO2 emissions.  In environmental protection, Novartis pursues a dual strategy: On  one  hand,  we  consistently   strive  to improve energy efficiency ? for example, five Novar tis   sites  have  used   solar   energ y systems since last year ? on the other hand, we take advantage of voluntary CO offsetting
? for example, by planting  more than three million  trees in northeast Argentina.

We regularly and critically assess our strategy, to ensure it remains relevant for the future. In  the  same  manner,  we  must  constantly review  our  organizational  processes and improve their  effectiveness and efficiency. Given the difficult market environment and rising research and development  costs, it is essential that  we continue  to work as effi- ciently  and productively as possible.  This also  means   simplif ying   processes   and creating leaner and flatter structures, so that we can work more  quickly, in less compli- cated  ways.  Avoiding  unnecessar y  costs enables us to invest more in research and to cope with pricing  pressures. We initiated “Project  Forward” two years ago with these objectives in mind. The program’s goal was to  implement productivity improvements and achieve savings of USD 1.6 billion within three years. After just two years, the project has already exceeded this target by 46%.

In the new, post-crisis reality, governments and the public have rightly raised the ethical bar for good corporate governance. At Novartis
we have always been convinced that integrity  and transparency are indispensable for  a sustainable  and  successful  business.  Our Code of Conduct, which our associates must learn and apply in their daily work, builds on these values. We also decided  last year to include long-term  objectives in the employ- ment  contracts  of our associates, and sys- tematically implement  “clawback”  provi- sions for bonuses.  In concrete  terms,  this means that action may be taken to reclaim  bonuses if it later emerges that the bonuses were paid out based on false information or dishonest    management.    Set ting    clear boundaries  should  prevent  our  financial  incentive programs  from abuse.

Last year, the Board of Directors  formed  a new committee to ensure that  risks in the company are properly analyzed and evaluated, and respective processes are followed.

In  addition,  the  Board  of  Directors   has decided to propose at the upcoming Annual General Meeting that you, our shareholders, may consultatively vote on our Compensation System in the future. This vote should take place before every significant change to the Compensation System,  but  at least every three  years.  We  continue  to believe that  a vote on individual compensation does not increase the likelihood of achieving business objectives. Decisions on compensation are a  key  strategic  management  tool  of  the Board of Directors, and are based on clearly defined objectives and performance criteria, which  are confidential for competitive rea- sons. For many years, Novartis has voluntarily  exceeded the legally required disclosure level in reporting  individual compensation of the Executive Committee.

Appointing outstanding leaders to positions of great responsibility is crucial to the sus- tainable success of our company. The timely planning of CEO succession was initiated  in 2008  with the creation of a transitory  COO position. Completing this process the Board of Directors  accepted  my request  to hand over   my   CEO  responsibilities  and   has decided to appoint  Joe Jimenez as the new CEO effective February 1. I felt it was timely after  14  years  that  I concentrate   on  the duties  of Chairman  of the Board,  and will henceforth  focus on the strategic priorities  of Novartis and the tasks which lie within the area  of  accountability  of  the  Board.  Joe Jimenez will be fully in charge of all aspects of the operational  business.

At Novartis,  the  question  of  whether  the functions  of CEO and Chairman  should  be separated   or   not,   will   continue   to   be answered in a flexible manner, according to the company’s strategic requirements. This will be decided in the future in the best interest of shareholders  and will not be rigidly prejudged  for formalistic reasons.

I felt that this was the right  moment  for a transition, as our full pipeline and the acqui- sition of Alcon marks a new growth  phase. Our business portfolio has been transformed to exclusively focus on healthcare, our pipe- line is highly valued, and our research orga- nization  is productive  and greatly respect- ed. Our leadership  team is competent  and motivated.  Due to all these factors,  today, Novartis is one of the most admired compa- nies in the healthcare industry.

Over the last several years, Joe Jimenez has led our Pharmaceuticals business, our most impor tant  division,  back  to  the  road  of success.  In  this  process,  he  has  distinguished himself as an excellent leader with a focus on clear objectives and impressive implementation  skills.  It  is  not  just  his energy, his self-discipline  and his engage- ment that makes him an ideal appointment as CEO. At least as important is his poised composure, as well as his sense of humor, which  is  also  a  great  asset  in  this  job.


Furthermore, Joe’s international experience in several business sectors will allow him to move easily in different cultures and take on the responsibilities of a global leader imple- menting  the Novartis strategy.

Joe Jimenez  embodies   two  of  the  most important values in our corporate culture: a consistent   focus  on  per formance   and  a sense of responsibility towards patients and society.  These  two  values  have  already shaped our predecessor companies Sandoz and Ciba-Geigy. Marc Moret never lost him- self  in  theoretical   reflection,  but  instead pursued  his  goals with  energ y and  great determination, against all kinds of bureau- cratic resistance which lurk in all big orga- nizations.  Alex Krauer was one of the first corporate   leaders  who  understood  that credibility and a holistic view are indispens- able requirements for success in business. I owe a lot to my predecessors. It is with this in mind  that I wish Joe Jimenez all the best as he assumes the responsibilities of his new position!

The Board appointed  David Epstein as the new Head of our  Pharmaceutical Division. Due to his great skills and sustained sense of  continuity,  David has led our  oncology business to a thriving  success.

In   these   times   of   leadership   change, our finance depar tment is not an exception. On February 1, 2010, Jon Symonds will take over as Chief Financial Of ficer (CFO) from Raymund   Breu,   who   has  reached   the mandator y retirement age of 65. Since Sep- tember 1, Jon Symonds has ser ved as Dep- uty CFO of the Group and designated suc- cessor to Mr. Breu. Previously, Mr. Symonds was Managing  Director,  Investment  Bank- ing,  with  Goldman  Sachs.  Mr.  Symonds’ experience in the pharmaceutical industr y goes back  many  years.  He was CFO with AstraZeneca for  eight  years and,  prior  to that, Finance Director at Zeneca.

I extend  my  heartfelt  thanks  to Raymund  Breu  for  his outstanding contributions as CFO and for his exceptional  achievements in management  during  his 35 years in the service of our company. He played a crucial role in the founding of Novartis and has been an  invaluable  partner  for me and my  col- leagues.  Novartis  owes a great deal to his expertise and his sound judgment. I would also like to thank our COO, Joerg Reinhardt, who  for  many  years successfully  led  our product  development before  he took over the  responsibility  for  our  vaccines  and diagnostics business.  He has now decided to   leave  our   company   to   pursue   new opportunities.

As shareholders you are obviously interested in the development of the value of our company. Our total shareholder return since the found- ing  of  Novartis  amounts  to  9%  annually, including continuously increasing dividends and business divestments. Our total share- holder return surpasses not only that of the global market, but also the pharmaceutical industry index and share price performance  of important competitors. This shows that we remain  in demand  as a safe stock with attractive long-term  performance.

In 2010, we expect net sales to grow at a mid- single-digit percentage rate in local currencies and for further improvement in the Group’s operating income margin.

Most critically, the Pharmaceuticals Division is equipped to manage the period of increas- ing generic competition for our best-selling product, Diovan. It is gratifying  to note that the  rest  of our  cardiovascular portfolio ? including the innovative medicine Tek turna/ Rasilez and combination products ? is grow- ing dynamically, allowing  us to most  likely maintain  our leading position  in this thera- peutic area. In addition, our broad product  por tfolio  beyond  pharmaceuticals  offers further  growth  opportunities ? not least in the field  of eye care.  But  above all,  at the start of this new decade, Novartis has a pipe- line that is more promising than ever before in our corporate history.

I would like to thank all our associates for their ongoing engagement, commitment to Novartis, and determination  in this challenging envi- ronment. I am especially  pleased that  our associates,  in  ever-changing   conditions, have  remained   fully  engaged  and  unde- terred in contributing to a successful year. We  should   not  take  this  for  granted;   it deserves our utmost  respect.

Finally, I thank you, our shareholders, for the trust you continue to place in our company. I am pleased to propose an increase in the dividend  to  CHF 2.10  (+5%)  at  the  next Annual General Meeting.


Sincerely,

Daniel Vasella, M.D.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Novartis 2010


DEAR SHAREHOLDER

I am pleased to repor t record  results  for 2010, both in sales and in profits.

The past year was shaped by repercussions from the global financial crisis and consid- erable currency turbulence. Despite these dif ficult   conditions ,   Novar tis  was  ver y successful.  Our  well-balanced   business por t folio  and  long-term  strateg y focused on  innovation  once more  have proved  to be robust  and appropriate for the future. The abilit y to repeatedly  launch  new and bet ter products, and thus establish market positions, is decisive for the sustainabilit y of our success. We demonstrated both  of these  core  competencies   last  year.  New and recently launched products were a key growth driver in 2010 and hold more prom- ise for  the  future.  Joe Jimenez,  our  new CEO since Februar y 2010, has successfully continued  this strateg y and launched new initiatives   to  improve   productivit y.  His nomination has proven  to  be  right  both in terms of timing  and in terms of the divi- sion of labor  bet ween the Chairman  and the CEO.

In addition,  since  August  2010,  Novar tis has held majorit y ownership of Alcon, Inc., the global leader in eye care. This year we will propose to you a merger that will fully integrate  Alcon  into  Novar tis.  While  this will  result  in  an increase  of the  Novar tis share capital, the merger not only provides you with  a new grow th plat form  but  also is expected to allow for the realization  of substantial  synergies  bet ween  the  t wo organizations.

Let me summarize  the results achieved in the last year:

? Net sales grew 14%  (+14%  in  constant  currencies)  to USD 50.6 billion.

? Operating income rose by 15% (+17%  in constant currencies)  to USD 11.5 billion.

? Net income climbed  18% (+20%  in con- stant currencies) to USD 10.0 billion, faster than operating  income.

? Free cash flow before dividends reached
USD 12.3 billion.

? Alcon   was   fully    consolidated   from  August 25 when we completed the pur- chase of an additional 52%  stake in the eye  care  leader.  From  that  date,  Alcon net sales totaled  USD 2.4 billion; oper- ating income amounted to USD 323 mil- lion;  and  core  operating  income   was USD 852  million.

The Pharmaceuticals Division (USD 30.6 billion,   +6%    in   const ant   currencie s) achieved  strong  volume  grow th  of  eight percent age   point s .    Sales   of   recently launched  products were USD 6.6  billion  accounting  for 21% of the division’s sales, a  significant  increase from  16%  the pre- vious year. This enabled Novar tis to grow signific antly   faster   than   the   industr y average. One of the most impor tant regu- lator y approvals  was for Gilenya,  the first oral medication for first-line  treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), the  most  common forms  of the  disease. Currently   2.1  million  people  worldwide  suf fer from MS, a lifelong, progressive and disabling disease. Compared to the standard of care, Gilenya represents a major breakthrough  by significantly reducing relapses and improving patients’ qualit y of life.

Our oncolog y por t folio  expanded  fur ther during  2010. Longer-term  studies demon- strated  Tasigna continues  to  surpass  the highly  ef fective Gleevec/Glivec in patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromo- some-positive  chronic  myeloid  leukemia (Ph+ CML), a form of blood cancer. Tasigna was approved in the US, the EU, Japan and Switzerland  for treatment of patients with newly diagnosed Ph+CML .

The sharp rise in Vaccines and Diagnostics Division net sales to USD 2.9 billion  (+25% in constant currencies) resulted mainly from sales of in?uenza A (H1N1)  pandemic  vac- cines, which totaled USD 1.3 billion  during the ?rst half of the  year.  Among the newly developed vaccines, Phase III studies showed that Bexsero has the potential to be the ?rst broad  coverage vaccine against meningo- coccal  B  (MenB)  disease.  Meningococcal disease is a leading cause of bacterial men- ingitis, an often deadly disease in infants.

The  generics  division  Sandoz  achieved double-digit grow th (USD 8.5 billion, +15% in constant currencies), thanks to stronger grow th in the US, Canada, Italy and emer- ging  markets  compared   to  the  previous year. The division’s grow th rate in Central and  E astern  Europe  is four  times  faster than the market ? and three times faster in Turkey, the Middle East and Africa. Sandoz posted an excellent result due to the first- to-market  launches in the US of dif ferenti- ated generic versions of complex products such as enoxaparin  (the  most  successful product  launch  ever by Sandoz),  tacroli- mus  and  lansoprazole.  This underscores the division’s abilit y to expand its por t folio

with complex and dif ferentiated  products. Growth also was attributable to biosimilars, as sales rose 63% in constant currencies. With  patents  expected  to expire  over the nex t  five  years  on  biologics  with  global sales of USD 64  billion,  the full  strategic impor tance   of  our   leading   position   in biosimilars will soon become apparent.

The Consumer Health Division overcame the ef fects of the global recession and increased net sales by 7% (6% in constant currencies) to USD 6.2  billion.  With this solid grow th, the Consumer Health Division excelled in its respective markets, and continues to grow thanks to the strong per formance of several key brands. With sales up 6.4% (in constant currencies)  the CIBA Vision Business Unit recorded solid grow th, while Animal Health benefitted from some of its top brands. OTC sales grow th was driven by analgesics and Prevacid24HR for treatment  of hear tburn.

We achieved strong growth in 2010  despite a global politic al  and economic situation shaped  by  considerable   challenges   and uncer tainties. Our strateg y, which focuses consistently on grow th areas of the health- care market while paying careful at tention to risks, has proved its value in this dynamic environment. Also in the future, based on this strateg y of focused diversification, we expect our company  to develop in a more stable way than  several of our  impor tant competitors. Our acquisition  of global eye care  leader  Alcon  is  expected  to  soon provide an additional  grow th plat form with considerable   synerg y  potential.  In  view of our  sustainable  success,  it  is not  sur- prising that our strateg y is imitated  today. In the long-term,  success is reser ved for those companies  that  can systematically  focus on their core business, recognize the inevitable   associated  risks,  and  handle them rationally, with strategic vision.

At the core of our corporate culture is the high significance we place on innovation. For several years Novar tis has received more approvals for new medicines than competi- tors.  We are recognized  as having  one of the best pipelines  in the industr y, and we continue to invest steadily in research and development. Cuts would increase profit in the short-term ? but only at a much  higher long-term cost.  This can  already  be ob - ser ved  today   at  other   companies   that reduced  their  R&D investments  in recent years. Through our ongoing commitment of people and other resources to innovation, we develop  differentiated medicines,  vaccines and other new products to bene?t patients.

Apar t from  the approvals  for Gilenya and Tasigna mentioned  above,  we  achieved other impressive breakthroughs during the past year.

A clinical  trial  showed Onbrez Breezhaler a treatment for  chronic  obstructive pul- monar y disease (COPD),  was superior  to salmeterol, currently  one of the mainstays of   therapy   for   this   condition.   Onbrez Breezhaler is  already  approved  in  more than 40 countries, including the EU.

Menveo,  a groundbreaking  vaccine to pre- vent meningococcal disease, was launched in the US, the EU, and cer tain countries in Latin  America and Asia-Paci?c.  Menveo is an impor tant tool for prevention of menin- gococcal disease,  a life-threatening  infec- tion that causes illness in more than 500 000 people each year. Indication extensions are proceeding  according  to plan  and should help to fur ther streng then this brand.

Biosimilars ? high- qualit y,  cost- ef fective follow- on  versions  of biologic  medicines  that  are  dif ficult  to  develop  and  manu- facture   ?  continue   their   strong   sales grow th. They are led by products  such as Omnitrope, which is gaining ground against originator  medicines  to  treat  growth  hor- mone deficiency, and by Binocrit (epoetin alfa)  and  Zar zio (filgrastim),  which  were introduced for  oncolog y indications.  This success is paving the way to fur ther extend the position of Sandoz as market leader in the field of biosimilars.

Novar tis has several ver y promising medi- cines  in  the  pipeline   for  patients   with unmet medical need. For example, SOM230 is the  first  medical  therapy  to show ef fi- cacy in a Phase III trial  in Cushing’s dis- ease,  a  debilitating  hormonal  disorder. There are currently no approved medicines to treat Cushing’s disease.

These outstanding innovation  milestones will play a key role in sustaining the grow th momentum of our company.

Expanding our presence in emerging coun- tries and continuously increasing our pro- ductivity are decisive elements of our growth strateg y. Last year we were able to fur ther expand  our  circle  of  patients   and  cus- tomers  in our  six key emerging  markets, and  posted  corporate   grow th  of  appro - ximately   12%   (in  constant   currencies)  compared  with the previous year.

It is imperative to steadily increase produc- tivity, particularly in these times of restricted public spending. By consistently simplifying our processes, we can provide added value for patients. This ensures our ability to invest in the future, despite price reductions  and

margin  pressures.  These investments  are critical  to sustain growth in our industry.

The demand  for medicines and therapies will continue to rise in the future for  the following  reasons:

? An aging world population with an increas- ing need for medical care. The impor tance of  this   trend   is  accentuated   by   the increasing   incidence   in  the  elderly  of chronic  conditions  such as degenerative diseases of the joints, the cardiovascular  system and the central  ner vous system, as well as a heightened  risk of cancer.

? Unhealthy  lifest yles and  environmental pollution are causing chronic illnesses on a pandemic scale. Unhealthy  eating hab- its, sedentar y lifest yles and environmen-  tal pollution have serious consequences including obesit y, chronic cardiovascular  disorders,  diabetes,  cancer and pulmo-  nar y disease.

? Rapid economic growth of emerging mar- kets, with better access to medical care. E xpanding  populations and  increasing prosperit y  are  creating  a  new  middle  class  of  about   2  billion   people.   The demand  for  bet ter  healthcare  is rising disproportionately in China, India, Russia and  Brazil.  The build  up  of sustainable healthcare   systems  also  is  playing   a significant role, as in the case of China, where such expansion is being pursued with substantial  political  energ y.

? Scientific  and  technologic al  advances enable new approaches in pharmaceutical research, leading to innovative medicines against previously  incurable  diseases or those that lacked suf ficient treatment.

Cost increases,  which  result  from  rising demand  for healthcare  ser vices, diagnos- tics and medicines, have led to a political  backlash, aiming to reduce the price of pat- ented medicines and streng then generics. With financial  problems  of  public  health- care systems  exacerbated  by the  conse- quences of the global recession, ever yone is required  to use  their  resources as ef fi- ciently as possible.

We  are  responding to  these  intensif ying challenges primarily by mobilizing our orga- nization around a common overarching goal: to make the right medicine available to the right patient at the right time. As our com- pany  incorporates  the rigorous  demands of societ y, patients and payors into its pro- cesses, and strives to bring medicines with an optimal cost-benefit  profile  to market, we will continue  to position  ourselves as a driver of change. Novar tis, which is recog- nized  as an innovative  company,  has no reason to fear these growing demands, for true  innovation  will  always be  valued  by societ y.

Novar tis also is responding  to increasing pressure on prices by implementing inno- vative pricing models, in which payment is clearly linked to added value for patients. In Germany, for example, the payment  for our   osteoporosis   medicine    Aclast a   is refunded   if  a  patient   suf fers  a  fracture at tributable  to  osteoporosis   within   one year of treatment. Similarly, in the United Kingdom,  we have introduced innovative pricing  models  for  our  asthma  medicine Xolair as well as for Lucentis,  a treatment for age-related macular  degeneration.

Technological   advances  also  help  us  to respond flexibly and creatively to changing

circumstances.  At Novar tis,  we are com- mit ted  to  developing   technolog y-based healthcare   solutions .  E xamples  include applications  to  remind   patients  to  take their  medicines,  redeem  their  prescrip - tions or check their vaccination status ? as well  as telemonitoring of  patients  using mobile  technolog y.

Political debate all too often ignores the fact that medical problems have heav y costs for healthcare systems, but also have  various socioeconomic cost implications. Far more politic al   at tention    should   be   paid   to indirect   cost   saving s   realized   through  preventing  or treating  disease with  inno- vative therapies and procedures. Because the indirect  cost  of illness is not  covered by government  budgets, however, it rarely receives systemic cost-benefit  analysis or is the subject of debate. Who calculates the economic  benefits  of a quicker  recover y and faster reintegration into work?

Moreover, too lit tle at tention  is paid to the fact that patented innovations become less expensive  with  widespread   use  and  the length  of time  they remain  on the market;  this is particularly true after patent  expiry. Everyone bene?ts in the end from this price reduction  process.  Novartis  makes a sub- stantial contribution in this respect through  Sandoz, a global leader in generics. Medi- cines generally account for 10% to 15% of total healthcare costs. A rational assessment of drug prices should take into consideration  the average price over the entire life cycle.

Broad  availabilit y  of  medical   advances played  a  decisive  role  in  the  dramatic improvement of public  health  in the 20th centur y. Healthcare must not be allowed to fall victim  to shor tsighted  austerit y measures that ignore the fundamental connec- tions  bet ween prevention  and  treatment. Medicine has seen enormous progress that has  vastly  improved  the  treatment and prevention of various illnesses, par ticularly during the last 50 years. People live longer today and they stay healthier longer. In the middle of the 20th centur y, cancer patients still  had  ver y  lit tle  chance  of  sur vival. Today, almost two-thirds of cancer patients sur vive at least five years af ter initial diag- nosis. During  the last 25 years, deaths of children  due to cancer have decreased by
60%.

It is a dangerously shor t-term view to deny that  research  and  development requires enormous  investment   to  deliver  innova- tion. In other words, innovation  has ? and must have ? its price. Allowing austerit y to become  the  principal aim  of  healthcare policy not only risks lowering the qualit y of medical  care, but also endangers the fun- damental  impetus  for medical  progress.

Progress requires tangible incentives. Cer- tainly, it is not always easy to make invest- ments  that  do not bear fruit  for years,  or even until  the next generation. Such long- term investments, however, are a hallmark  of sound policy. The pharmaceutical indus- tr y is accustomed  to long cycles but, here again,  it  is not  always easy to raise R&D expenditures  amid the pressures of shor t- term expectations.

The  post- crisis sobriet y  now  reigning  in many of the world’s prosperous nations may also have a positive side. Now is the time to ask and answer some fundamental ques- tions. How impor tant is health to us? How impor tant  is innovation? Is societ y willing to  continue  investing  in  basic  research, education  and  training  ? or will  budgets impor tant for the future  be cut, and other politically  sensitive areas spared instead?

We should  remember  that  our prosperit y is founded  on innovation  and that,  espe- cially today, global economic  competition is  primarily a competition in  innovation. Even in  today’s increasingly  volatile  and polarized    politic al   climate,   innovation  remains  the  rational  core of societ y and must  be upheld. I place my trust  with the majorit y who see more oppor tunities  than risks in progress, because our industr y in par ticular  needs a societ y that  suppor ts the idea of progress. Novar tis too can make social progress a realit y rather than merely an  empt y phrase,  namely  by  helping  to solve significant  social problems.  That is the case in par ticular for health problems  arising  from  extreme  pover t y in develop- ing countries, precisely during these times of increasing  protectionism and shrinking  development  aid budgets.

Long-term engagement and a clear strate- gic direction  are also essential for corpo- rate  citizenship.  In  view  of  today’s eco - nomic uncer tainties, both development aid and  corporate  citizenship  face an uncer- tain future.  Moreover,  the term  corporate citizenship  (or  corporate  social responsi- bilit y) risks being  devalued  from  overuse by many economic  players.

Today,  for  those who take corporate  citi- zenship  truly  seriously, stringent  require- ments must apply. It must be strategically embedded   and  it  must  be  quantifiable through  concrete  indicators.  And it must not lose sight of the fact that our success- ful core business constitutes our main con- tribution to public welfare: We discover and market  new  medicines   to  help  patients worldwide.

Last year Novartis contributed USD 1.5 bil- lion or 3% of net sales through  access-to- medicine  programs  as well as investment  in  research  targeting   diseases  that  are prevalent in the developing world. We strive to eradicate  ? in the mid-term ? diseases such as malaria that can be prevented and treated to alleviate future suf fering. In 2010 alone,  Novar tis  access-to -medicine   pro - grams reached 85 million  patients in need, of whom 81 million  were malaria patients.

The  last  few  years  have  taught  us  that merely providing  medicines is not enough. Here again,  a holistic  approach  is indis- pensable for sustainable success. Training, logistics  management  and  other  forms of  technical   exper tise  are  necessar y  to achieve  ef fective  solutions.  I am  pleased that the Novartis Malaria Initiative has been recognized repeatedly for its effectiveness, and  as a role  model.  Last year our  anti- malarial medicine Coartem and the Novartis Malaria Initiative won the US Prix Galien for Best Pharmaceutical Product, as well as the World Business and Development  Award.

Our contributions to corporate citizenship  do not depend on the economy or business cycles, but solely on the long-term  success of Novar tis.

As shareholders you are  obviously inter- ested in the development of the value of our company.  Our  total   shareholder   return  since the founding  of Novar tis amounts  to
9%    annually,    including   continuously increasing dividends  and business divest- ments.  Our total  shareholder  return  sur- passes not only that of the global market,  but also the pharmaceutical industr y index and share price per formance of impor tant competitors. Again for 2010, this confirms that  Novar tis not  only  fulfills  its primar y mission  ef fectively,  but  also represents  a sustainable  investment,  which,  especially in times of severe ?uctuations and ongoing unease in financial  markets,  is at tractive. Our  strateg y  of  focused  diversification, together  with the traditional streng th and consistency  of  our  dividend  payout,  will ensure   Novar tis  remains   an  at tractive investment  in the future.

For 2011,  we expect fur ther grow th of net sales in local currencies and further improve- ment in net operating income. Thanks to a number  of  recently   launched   products with  rapid  sales grow th,  Novar tis  is less af fected by patent expiries than most of its competitors.  In the  last year,  21%  of net sales (excluding Alcon) was at tributable to products launched  since  2007.  Fur ther- more, we have one of the best pipelines in the industr y, with some ver y promising pro- ducts at advanced stages of development.

Gilenya has impressive  grow th  potential, and strong successor products are already on  the  market  to  replace  Gleevec/Glivec and Diovan. We are confident  of our abilit y to compensate  for lost sales due to expir y of Diovan patents. Our broad por t folio with varied   business   cycles   should   deliver sustainable  development compared  with the  industr y.  Therefore  we have  a good chance to more  than  compensate  for the loss in sales, given of course a lit tle luck .

I would like to thank all our associates for their   ongoing  eng agement   and  tireless commitment. Thanks to our associates we succeeded again last year in sustaining our leading position in innovation, accelerating our  grow th,  and  increasing  our  produc-  tivit y. Once again, we will work together to focus our company  firmly  on the needs of patients throughout the world.

Finally,  I thank  you,  our shareholders,  for the trust  you place in our company.  I am pleased to be able to propose an increase in  the dividend  to CHF 2.20  (+5%)  at the next Annual General Meeting.


Sincerely,

Daniel Vasella, M.D.
Chairman of the Board

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Novartis 2011

DEAR SHAREHOLDER

What started with a banking  crisis in 2008  grew  into  a debt  crisis  for  a number of industrialized nations last year. So far there has been a distinct  lack of credible propos- als for a short-term solution  to tackling the budget  deficits  and reducing  the debt, let alone any long-term solution. It now appears unlikely that all the institutions of social wel- fare that  have  been built  up over the past decades can be maintained in the long term. Expansion of the money supply may paper over problems  in the short term, but there can be no doubt that the consequences of debt and money supply policies will catch up with us one day.

Despite the uncertainties that  are shaping the current mood, Novartis again succeeded in posting  record sales of USD 58.6 billion  and  a net  income  of  USD 9. 2  billion  in
2011,  as well as gained  market  share in most divisions.

The strategy of focusing on the healthcare sector, which we have pursued over the last 15 years, has proven successful. Our activities  include   preventive  healthcare, diagnostics and above all drug therapy. This opens up multiple opportunities for expan- sion both geographically  and also in terms of new products,  and it allows knowledge and experience to be successfully leveraged over several business  areas.  Our focused diversification strateg y also reduces risks notably by diversifying  the payor base.

Innovation, qualit y and productivit y are a prerequisite  for all divisions to remain com- petitive.  Innovative  streng th  is  especially crucial  for  Pharmaceuticals.  We therefore invested over 20% of Pharmaceuticals sales in R&D last year,  consistent  with  previous years. Our robust pipeline includes products for the treatment of cer tain cancers,  res- pirator y  diseases,  metabolic  disorders, infections, as well as autoimmune and oph- thalmic  diseases.

Novartis has successfully established itself in new therapeutic  areas and expanded its product  portfolio  of highly specialized medi- cines. New discovery approaches could also enable us to tackle previously  untreatable  diseases of genetic origin.

The launch of Gilenya, the first oral therapy for multiple sclerosis is a success. Afinitor/ Votubia has proven to be a new and valuable cancer  therapy.  In addition  to previously approved indications, the results of clinical studies confirm  that  it also has consider- able potential  in the treatment of estrogen receptor-positive, metastatic  breast cancer n combination with the aromatase inhibitor exemestane. Tasigna is an even more effec- tive treatment for chronic myeloid leukemia than  Glivec,  which  already  set a very high standard  in this treatment. Just before the end  of  the  year,  we  received  marketing authorization for Lucentis in China. In the key countries, Lucentis is approved not only for wet macular degeneration, but also for the treatment of diabetic  macular  edema and retinal vein occlusion.

The year 2011 was also the beginning of pat- ent expiries for Diovan ? our most successful 
antihypertensive ? in larger European markets. Patent expiry in the US will follow in 2012. Within two years we expect a corresponding decline in sales, which could amount  to a drop of USD 4 billion dollars. We expect this will probably be offset by the dynamic growth of new products.

Thanks to a diligent and highly professional approach, the integration of Alcon ? the world’s leading producer of eye-care products ? went smoothly. The synergy targets that were set were exceeded while sales increased by 7% n constant currencies. This new division is thus contributing significantly to the growth of the Group.

The decision to systematically  build up our generics business was initially  questioned, but  is now  imitated by  other  companies. Sandoz, our generics division, shows dynamic grow th  worldwide  and,  over the  past  12 months, the anticoagulant enoxaparin  has become our first generic to generate sales of more than USD 1 billion.

The  Vaccines  and  Diagnostics   Division gained market share with Menveo, a vaccine for  meningitis t ypes  A ,  C,  W-135  and  Y. Bexsero  ? for meningitis t ype B,  an of ten fatal infection  among newborns ? is under regulator y  review  in  Europe.  Thanks  to its  investment  in  the  vaccines  producer Zhejiang Tianyuan Bio-Pharmaceutical Co. in  China,  the  division  has access to  this promising market.

Both the self-medication and animal health businesses showed  grow th  in the single- digit  range  thanks  to their  good  product  por t folios.

While there were many successes, there were also setbacks. A long-term  study  with  the antihypertensive aliskiren showed negative results in high-risk patients with pre-existing renal or cardiovascular  disease. For all the advances made in research and development, there  were  also delays  in  the  regulator y approval of some products.

Particular attention and fur ther ef for ts are needed regarding  qualit y management  in production.  A s  with  many  competitors, Sandoz received a warning let ter from the US Food and Drug  Administration,  which has  tightened   up  it s requirement s .  For qualit y assurance reasons we also tempo- rarily  stopped  production in our  Lincoln, Nebraska, US, factor y for over-the-counter and animal health products. Remediation actions are now under way including lead- er ship   change s  and  rigorous   tr aining. Across our businesses, we decided to pro- ceed with qualit y-oriented  investments  at our manufacturing sites.

As a result of government-imposed price cuts and patent  expiries, productivit y ini- tiatives continue to gain impor tance. These factors led to some site closures and related product  transfers. Research and develop- ment also reviewed their operations, which led  to  the  outsourcing  of  some  cyclical activities  in  development,  as well  as the reorganization  of  research  activities   in neuroscience  ultimately resulting  in  the closure of the depar tment in Basel. Due to the Diovan patent  expir y,  restructuring of our US operations remains an imperative. At the  same time,  we are increasing  our investments   in  grow th  regions,  such  as Asia and South America.

Restructuring is very stressful  for  associ- ates, especially in an environment of rising unemployment,  and  it is one of the most unpleasant   responsibilities  for  manage- ment. However, a company that fails to make the necessary adjustments to market  con- ditions because of the hardship  associated with such decisions will sooner or later pay an even higher price for inaction.

In 2011, Novartis continued its support for patients who are unable to afford treatment.  This is especially  the  case for  people  in developing   countries.  For  several  years now, all the leprosy medicines needed world- wide have been provided  free of charge by Novar tis  in  collaboration with  the  World Health Organization. The 480 million  doses of our antimalarial drug Coartem that have been sold  without  profit  since 2001  have helped save an estimated  1 million  lives ? most of them  children. This is the largest and most important program  of its kind.

Our researchers also recently succeeded in discovering  a new and promising class of compounds for the treatment of malaria, known as imidazolopiperazines . Addition-  ally, we are continuing our discovery efforts for  new  medicines  and  vaccines  to  treat neglec ted  diseases mainly  occurring in developing countries.

Alcon also conducts pro bono programs  in the field  of ophthalmolog y. In India  some years ago, Novartis began an innovative ini- tiative  with  doctors  to improve  healthcare in rural regions. There is significant demand for  this  program,  which  already  encom- passes 33 000 villages.

In the new year, we will continue  to pursue our primar y objectives in the field of pre- ventive care and treatment by working  to discover  innovative   medicines   and  vac- cines, as well as by offering low-cost, high- quality  generics.

In spite of the uncertain economy ? partic- ularly government debt and weak growth ? we will pursue our strategy. Continued inno- vation  and  expansion  in  grow th  markets will remain  key to gaining market  share in the medium term. At the same time, pricing pressure  must  be of fset  by  productivit y gains, including restructuring activities in cer tain markets, which we will implement with  social  responsibilit y. We must  con- tinue  to ensure  the  highest  qualit y stan- dards  across the Group.  We are building our  research  and  development center  in China and also production sites in  Brazil and Russia.

We will  continue  to invest  in the training  and education  of our  associates because their  competence,  motivation and  integ- rit y are key to our success. The E xecutive Commit tee is commit ted to enforcing  our Code of Conduct worldwide. It is essential that the trust  of our stakeholders  and the company’s good reputation be preser ved also in the future.

We are confident  that thanks to our pipe- line, one of the richest and most promising in the industr y, we will be able to continu-  ously contribute to the ef fective treatment of patient s worldwide  and  thereby  grow and generate profits.

I  am  grateful  to  all  our  as sociates  and leaders worldwide  for their excellent work during  the past year and their  continued  engagement in the pursuit  of our mission.

We also extend our thanks to you, our share- holders,  for your  loyalt y,  and are pleased to propose an increase in the dividend  to CHF 2.25 for 2011.

Sincerely,

Daniel Vasella, M.D.
Chairman of the Board

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Novartis 2012

DEAR SHAREHOLDER

The economic and debt  crisis has cast a shadow over europe and the united states for more than four years, and it signi?cantly affected 2012, as well. Despite major  con- certed  effor ts,  the  end  of  this  troubling period is not yet in sight.

Even the regions and markets that have so far escaped the crisis are now in danger of being  affected  by  its  socioeconomic  side effects. Protectionist market  interventions, monetary  expansion and over-regulation ? all signs of reactive politics ? are increasing and can lead to a deepening  of structural de?cits.  Persistent  weak growth  is likely, despite low interest rates and monetary ex- pansion. High levels of public debt make the problem worse in many countries, and there is no certainty as to whether pension funds and social welfare institutions will be able to meet their promises in the medium term.

Despite this ominous backdrop, Novartis once again posted strong results in 2012. This is all the more remarkable  given that we were  forced to deal with increased price pressure, the patent expiration for our successful heart drug  Diovan,  and  persistent  turbulence on ?nancial  and currency  markets.  moreover, quality  problems  at sandoz  and consumer Health  led to production downtime,  which also affected results.

Despite these far-reaching  events, Novartis was able to provide 1.2 billion patients world- wide with medical care in 2012 ? exceeding the record-setting level of previous  years ? thanks to recently launched products and the further  expansion in fast-growing  markets.

The Group’s net sales reached UsD 56.7 bil- lion  (?3%,  unchanged  in constant  curren- cies), while net income increased by 4% (7% in constant currencies) to UsD 9.6 billion.

The pharmaceuticals  Division (UsD 32.2 bil- lion, 2% in constant currencies) rejuvenated its product portfolio with the help of recently launched  products  such as leukemia drug Tasigna and ophthalmic medicine  Lucentis, which helped balance the Diovan patent loss. moreover, groundbreaking therapies  such as Gilenya and  Afinitor  ? which  in  2012  posted revenue growth in constant curren- cies of 147%  and 85%,  respectively  ? are expected to generate sustainable  growth  in the future.

Alcon (UsD 10.2 billion, 5% in constant cur- rencies) was able to assert itself and with- stand the growing price pressure and com- petition   from   generics,  due  to  product launches and the successful integration  of ciBA vision. sandoz (UsD 8.7 billion, ?4% in constant  currencies)  succeeded  in  com- pensating  for the competition-driven price decline of enoxaparin, on the back of strong demand for biosimilars, growth in emerging markets,  and  the  strategically  signi?cant acquisition of Us dermatology drug  maker Fougera.

The performance of otc and animal health,  which together make up consumer health  (UsD 3.7 billion, ?16% in constant currencies), was hurt by quality issues at a Us production site  in  Lincoln,  Nebraska,  which  required  additional investment.  Both divisions, how- ever, are expected to return  to growth  once again in 2013.

Production bottlenecks also affected vaccines and diagnostics (UsD 1.9 billion, ?4% in con- stant currencies). On an encouraging note, the division received EU approval in January
2013 for the new, potentially life-saving menin- gococcal disease vaccine Bexsero.

Our strategy of focused diversification  is effective, especially during times of crisis. Geared toward  the needs of  patients,  the strategy centers on the research and devel- opment of innovative and cost-effective med- ical treatments. This clearly de?ned approach enables  us  to  respond  to  ever-changing demand and to focus on areas that have the potential  for long-term  success.

Since Novartis was created in 1996, we have consistently  focused on markets and tech- nologies   with   potential   for  sustainable  growth.  This has enabled  the company  to grow from  a chemical  and pharmaceutical group into a pure healthcare company. This forward-looking  approach  and  long-term planning  have helped maintain  the growth and earnings prospects of Novartis despite the expiration  of the patent  for Diovan and other products.

Our geographic diversi?cation is just as crit- ical as our broad product portfolio. Our global presence enables us to take  advantage  of market opportunities quickly and decisively
? especially during  turbulent times, which require ?exibility, a stable foundation and the ability to adapt to new market conditions.

In addition to cost synergies in purchasing, cros s- divisional   cooperation   in   sales, 

research  and  development,  distribution, and production allows us to bene?t from the advantages of our Group structure.

Central to our strategy and the ful?llment of our primary task is our ability to consistently introduce new drugs that are more effective or more cost-ef?cient. Research and devel- opment remains our essential core compe- tency in achieving this mission. This is why Novartis  began several years ago to over- haul  and  promote   its  internal   research activities. These efforts have paid off: From
1996 through 2011, Novartis received more
product  approvals for new molecular  enti- ties in Europe and the United  states  than our competitors, and our product pipeline, currently  with 138 pharmaceutical develop- ment projects, is one of the most promising in the industry.

To maintain  our leading  position,  Novartis invested  more  than  UsD  9  billion  in  the research and development  of new drugs in
2012.  This  is  especially  notewor thy  be - cause many of our competitors are instead reducing their research spending to achieve short-term savings in this dif?cult economic climate.  We believe this  strategy  is short- sighted.  The detrimental  effects  of these activities  often  will  not  come to light  until  sometime  in the future, which is not in the best  long-term  interests  of patients,  the company  and shareholders.

Novartis achieved a number  of key approv- als in  2012.  in  the  past  12  months,  the Pharmaceuticals Division  has  reached  11 major regulatory  approvals.

And our rich pipeline  also offers the pros- pect of future success. We are focusing  on serious  illnesses  for  which  there  are cur- rently  no  or  only  inadequate  treatments. This applies to cancer, diabetes, and cardio- vascular   and   lung   diseases,   which   are expected  to increase due to global  demo- graphic trends.

As  scienti?c   understanding  of  genetics advances, we are increasingly  able to dis- cover drugs that can be used in a targeted manner,  even for  diseases with  different  phenotypes.

We are also advancing the research of med- icines for rare and neglected diseases. One milestone has been the approval of Signifor to treat adults with cushing’s disease, a rare and life-threatening disease caused by too much cortisol in the blood.

A closer look reveals, however, that increas- ingly stringent public policies ? in particular, pressure on drug prices ? threaten to erode the culture of innovation in healthcare. This is made worse by the one-sided and biased public   debate  that  ignores  the  built-in uncertainties that  are part  of a complex knowledge-based   industry  such  as  the healthcare sector.

Despite major medical breakthroughs and therapeutic  successes, the healthcare  sec- tor remains an industry fraught with consid- erable risks. The costs involved in bringing  a drug  to market  have risen substantially in  recent  years  and  have surpassed  the UsD  1  billion  mark ,  which  is repeatedly quoted  as the  cost  of a successful  drug launch. But according to retrospective anal- yses for  the  period  from  1997  to  2011, launching  a new drug  actually  costs any- where from UsD 3.7 billion  to UsD 11.8 bil- lion, depending on the company. During this period, Novartis obtained the most approv- als from Us authorities and had the second- highest rate of productivity.

Even though  research and development  at Novartis  is among  the most  productive  in the world,  deep ?nancial  resources  alone are no  guarantee  that  drugs  will  receive marketing approval,  even when they have advanced to late-stage development.  The tremendous  complexit y of  modern  drug research must therefore factor in the risk of

setbacks  in  order  to  offer  the  long-term innovation  and ongoing  medical  progress that  society  justi?ably demands.  But  this has its economic price.

The tougher environment requires additional skills from business leaders. managers can no longer measure their performance based solely on ?nancial  success. They must also be measured by their ability to deal with the growing  number of  interest  groups  that participate in the often emotionally charged healthcare  debate.  Business leaders must set clear priorities, as it is impossible to take all wishes and demands into consideration, especially when they are often mutually in- compatible. close attention  should be paid to the legitimate needs of patients, employ- ees and shareholders.

This clash of opposing needs is also behind  the dilemmas that arise ever more frequently  in the current tense economic climate, when private healthcare companies deliver agreed- upon  services without  being compensated  accordingly, or at all. A way out of this situ- ation, which must always keep the patient’s well-being in mind, can only be found through  a  cooperative   process  in  which  interest  groups work together and engage in a ratio- nal dialogue in order to identify  long-term  solutions. We should avoid imprudent mea- sures that often entail unforeseen risks.

This goal cannot  be achieved in an atmo- sphere of distrust, which is re?ected in the rising number of con?icts that are fought out in  court.  This tendency  is re?ective  of the anxious  atmosphere that  has struck  vast portions  of societ y since the outbreak  of the economic crisis. This also includes the increased  attacks  that  risk  undermining legal and contractual certainty, which only will lead to further  instability.

Thanks to our pro?tability in 2012, we were once again able to support millions of patients who lack suf?cient ?nancial resources and access to life-saving treatments.  As part of our  corporate  responsibility,  we were able to  provide  more  than  100  million people with  access to medicines  and  treatments valued at more than UsD 2 billion, or about
3.6% of total sales.

Besides our free anti-leprosy drugs ? we have provided  combination therapies  to  more than 5 million  people since 2000 ? Novartis continues to work with partners such as the World  Health  Organization  and UNicEF  to ?ght the spread of malaria and to stem the epidemic’s  health  and  economic   conse- quences. since  2001, the Novartis malaria initiative has distributed more than 500 mil- lion  treatments of Coar tem  and  Coar tem Dispersible  without  pro?t.  in order  to help more patients and to save even more lives, Novartis  is  breaking  new ground  by using state-of-the-art information technology  to improve  the distribution and management  of drugs in Africa and Asia. These new solu- tions will enable us to supply much-needed  drugs to people in remote areas in the future.

But the concept of corporate  responsibility goes beyond charitable donations. To combat the health disparity resulting from neglected diseases and develop new therapies against widespread  infectious  diseases,  Novartis also maintains  research  facilities  such as the Novartis institute  for Tropical Diseases in  singapore  and  the  Novartis  vaccines institute  for Global Health in siena, italy.

In addition, we are extending  our for-pro?t social business to improve  access to medi- cines in economically underdeveloped regions of  Kenya, vietnam,  indonesia,  Nigeria  and Ghana.  This builds  on work we have done over the past five years to provide  access to medical care to more than 40 million peo- ple in 33 000 villages in rural india.

Times of structural change are marked  by uncertainties. There is no question, however, that the  macroeconomic  challenges  will  remain  signi?cant  and the threat  of over- regulation  will grow. As a consequence  we need a stronger dialogue between the private and  public  sector to ?nd  common  ground  and keep the crisis from  escalating. short-  term political calculations can do major harm to the healthcare  industry, which  depends on long-term  policies. This ultimately could risk prolonging  the current crisis and irrep- arably weaken the economic structure.

Excessive price reductions and discounts on drugs  usually  receive  quick   and  broad-  based political  support,  but  they threaten the necessary funding  for the research and development  of new drugs. Hasty popular  decisions  also disregard  the  fact  that  in- patient and outpatient treatments  generate a large part of today’s healthcare costs, and gloss over the positive economic impact  of effective medical  therapies.  studies  show that  spending  UsD  1 on drugs  can save about  UsD 6 in the healthcare  sector and thus provide signi?cant  savings to the over- all economy.

Society simply  has not yet recognized  the potential of prevention. At a time when health- care  budgets  are  restricted   and  debates rage over how to allocate  resources fairly, prevention  measures offer a sensible alter- native due to their high cost-benefit  ratio. Healthy  lifest yles should  be rewarded,  as should  diagnostic  tests  to  advance  early detection so diseases can be diagnosed and treated in a timely  manner. measures such as these can bene?t  the entire  healthcare system and help rein in costs.

Our  business model has proven itself to be stable and attractive to investors despite the ongoing economic and political challenges. in a time  of dangerous  levels of debt  and fundamental uncertainty over what an ef?- cient  market  economy  should  look  like, together  with  ?uctuating share prices,  we offer our shareholders a high degree of reli- ability, evidenced by continually increasing dividend   payments   and   above -average creditworthiness.

Thanks to our  strategic  positioning,  focus on innovation, strong product por tfolio and healthy  pipeline,  we can therefore  look to the future with con?dence and the certainty that we can build on the strong performance  we have delivered in the past.

I would like to take this opportunity to thank all employees for their dedication  and tire- less commitment, which helped us in 2012  to generate results on par with our record- breaking results of the past despite the pit- falls of the ?nancial crisis and the expiration  of the patent for Diovan. We will continue to do everything we can in 2013 to consistently  focus our efforts  on the needs of patients around the world, and i am con?dent  that this will enable us to generate strong, sustainable results over the long term.

Dear shareholders, i am pleased to propose an increase in the dividend to cHF 2.30 (2%) at the  next  Annual  General meeting.  And ?nally, i would like to thank you for the trust you have placed  in our  company  and  my leadership. After 25 years with the company and 17 years in a top management position, i have decided  not to stand for re-election to the Board  of Directors. i am pleased to propose  Dr.  J?rg Reinhardt,  a very experi- enced healthcare executive with deep knowl- edge of our company, as my successor. J?rg will serve as Non-Executive chairman of the Board after an interim  period during  which Prof. Dr. Ulrich Lehner will lead the Board of Directors.

Sincerely,

Daniel vasella, m.D.
Chairman of the Board






Q.1999년부터 CSR보고서가 나와있던데 2004년 이전것도 다운 받아서놔야하나?요?? 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Roche 2004



We are pleased to present our second Sustainability Report ? once again in combination with the finan- cial report  as an  integrated  part  of  the  Annual Report and for the first time representing the whole Roche Group, with the inclusion of our majority holdings Chugai and Genentech but excluding the OTC business for non-prescription medicines that was sold during the year. The fact that we are pub- lishing both reports at the same time testifies to our deep conviction, that has grown over 100 years, that sustainability cannot be separated  from everyday business and is not just a marketing tool. Roche sees and has always seen itself primarily as a profit- oriented company and this will not change. This economic objective should not be achieved, how- ever, on the basis of short-term  profit maximisation. It should rather be considered from a long- term,  sustainable point  of view. Each and  every employee in  our  company can and indeed must contribute to sustainable creation of value in his or her area. This is necessary in order for Roche to be able to continue  to invest in the development of innovative solutions for hitherto  unsolved health problems and also, in the interests of all the parties involved, take responsibility for the direct field of activity that surrounds them. It is a central part of our long-term  strategy, therefore, to unite entre- preneurial  responsibility with innovation  in  the interests of health.

The most important  visible sign of the success of our efforts to increase transparency in our actions in sustainable terms was the fact of being selected to join two leading sustainability indexes in Septem- ber 2004: the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) and the Dow Jones STOXX Sustain- ability Index (DJSI  STOXX). This was preceded by thorough examination of our economic, social and environmental performance. This amounts to certification  from  an  independent   party  using objective criteria that  we, as  a  leading company worldwide, have been successful in orienting our- selves to the principles of sustainable development. We are proud of this visible success and at the same time it is our aim to maintain these high standards, which sets the benchmark for 2005.

Our  scientific commitment  to  the  research and development of new health solutions that is closely linked to considerable economic risk is and remains our most important contribution to sustainability. Each year we invest considerable funds in finding more  efficient solutions  to  the  numerous  as yet unresolved health problems. In  2004 we invested
5.1 billion francs worldwide in research and devel- opment.  The opening  of our  research centre  in Shanghai (China) on 1 November 2004 is a further milestone for our innovation-oriented company. In doing so we are  also creating attractive jobs for highly qualified scientists, who  might  otherwise leave the country.

Transparency  in  clinical research into  new sub- stances or medicines has always been important for Roche. We  are convinced that we have an ethical duty to publish the results of all clinical studies that are of significance to science and medicine. We wel- come and support the new industry-wide solution to have, from now on, ongoing studies as well as the results of finished studies recorded by an indepen- dent and neutral office and make them available to the public.

The success of both the Pharmaceuticals and Dia- gnostics Divisions that are represented with their products  and  services in  all important  markets allowed us to create about 2,400 new jobs world- wide in 2004 aimed  at, for the most part, highly qualified people. The orientation  of our employ- ment policy  towards sustainable creation of value has paid off. Clear objectives for more than 1,000 members of senior management, career and succes- sion  planning  that  was introduced  early on  as well as a transparent and motivating performance culture creates the basis on which both the employ- ees and company can develop further.

Our efforts to further spread sustainable thinking and action within the company and its employees have been successful. Sustainability is the duty of every employee and should be practised in every business area and  activity. I would like to thank every employee in his or her place of work who contributes to sustainable value creation at Roche and urge them to continue doing so in future. The overwhelming success of the worldwide competi- tion for ecological ideas called ‘ECOmpetition’ has shown us that we can depend on the creativity and willingness to participate of our employees. This basis allows us to approach the coming year with its  challenging goals optimistically. Once  again, the Corporate Sustainability Committee played an important  role in furthering sustainable thinking. It is responsible for preparing and adapting, where and  as  necessary, the  corporate  guidelines that apply throughout the world as well as for coordina- tion  and  reporting.  In  2004, new guidelines for, among others, our relationship with external busi- ness partners  (supply  chain)  were approved  by the Executive Committee in October 2004.

The responsibility we feel that  goes beyond our business activities in the strictest sense of the defi- nition is recognised fully in this report. Roche has put its commitment to the Least Developed coun- tries in the world, as defined by the UN, into prac- tice and has adapted and extended, where neces- sary,  its  patent   and   pricing   policy  that   was introduced  some years ago. Our  well established cooperation with local partners in areas with inad- equate medical care has brought  further  success: more  than  40,000 South Africans living in  rural areas  were  able  to   benefit  directly  from   the Phelophepa health train in 2004. After the tsunami disaster in Asia, Roche took action after a swift but careful assessment by the general managers on the spot  together  with the  local authorities  and  in- ternational  aid organisations. In  addition  to  the immediate medical and financial aid provided by Roche country affiliates on the spot, we reserved all available stocks of antibiotics at the Group level and made them available to an international aid organ- isation. These were used to treat 80,000 individuals in the affected areas.

In  2004 once  again, many  young scientists and scientific institutions were able to take advantage of a rich palette of opportunities  within Roche and its  partner  foundations.  In  this  way the  Roche Research Foundation alone was able to support 72 scientists and their projects. We have also further developed our special tradition of working together with contemporary art and culture. Projects such as the Tinguely Museum in Basel or the commis- sion to the Chinese-American composer Chen Yi as part  of the Roche Commissions illustrate our drive in promoting  innovation, the willingness to support  what is unconventional  and challenging, striving for excellence in all our activities without consideration of the attractions of short-term pop- ularity.

Our  figures for safety, health and environmental protection continue to be very positive: emissions of harmful substances as well as consumption  of resources were further reduced. There were no acci- dents or damaging events that had an important impact on people or the environment in 2004. This is a noteworthy achievement for an industrial com- pany and not one that should be taken for granted.

Regular reporting on sustainability and updating of information on our web site serve both our need for a critical review of our own status quo as well as the interests of the broader public. This Sustainability Report provides transparency and at the same time spurs us on to make further progress. Striving for sustainability is an ongoing and demanding process and in addition to the awareness of our employees we also count on the working collaboration of 
other stakeholder groups ? in particular, regulatory authorities, the constructive participation  of  our suppliers, the willingness of healthcare providers to enter into a dialogue, as well as the trust and loyalty of doctors and patients to our products and ser- vices. Our thanks go to all of them. I would also like to extend special thanks to our shareholders and holders of non-voting equity securities (‘Genuss- scheine’) who make it possible for us to follow our long-term strategy.

We will continue in our efforts to create value with- out neglecting our values.


Franz B. Humer
Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Roche 2005


Your company had an outstanding 2005. Innovative Roche medicines and diagnostics helped advance the  fight  against serious diseases. Operationally and  financially the  Group  posted strong  results, with substantial market share gains and a further significant improvement in operating profitability. At the General Meeting of Shareholders the Board of Directors will propose  a dividend increase of
25% to 2.50 Swiss francs per share and non-voting equity security. If approved, this will be the Group’s nineteenth dividend increase in as many years.

Sales by the Roche Group rose 19% in local curren- cies and for the first time exceeded 35 billion Swiss francs.  The  Pharmaceuticals Division accounted for most of this increase. Its sales were up 25% for the year, four times the average market growth rate.

The Diagnostics Division maintained its leadership position in a difficult market, but fell slightly short of its performance goals.

Group  operating  profit  before exceptional items rose by one-third to a record high of 9 billion Swiss francs. At 6.7 billion Swiss francs, net income came close to matching the previous year’s figure, despite income of 2.3 billion Swiss francs recorded in 2004 from the divested consumer health business. This strong earnings performance will enable us to con- tinue  investing heavily in  research and  develop- ment and in expanding our production base. With Group expenditure on research and development totalling more than 5.5 billion Swiss francs annu- ally, ours is one of the world’s most research-inten- sive companies. During the next several years we  will additionally be investing about 2 billion Swiss francs in new biotech manufacturing  facilities to keep pace with rising demand for our products.

Roche is in excellent financial health. In 2005 we further strengthened our balance sheet and significantly increased net cash. Over the last three years our ratio of equity to total assets has risen steadily from 40% to 60%. This increased financial strength gives us the strategic flexibility to selectively expand our  core  pharmaceuticals  and  diagnostics busi- nesses. In late 2005 Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s awarded Roche  credit  ratings of AA+ and  Aa1, respectively ? the second highest ratings assigned by these agencies.

For the Pharmaceuticals Division 2005 was the best year in Roche history. Despite the expiry of the US patent  on Rocephin, once Roche’s  top-selling medicine, the division increased its sales by a truly impressive 5.5 billion Swiss francs to over 27 billion Swiss francs. For the first time ever, seven Roche medicines generated  annual  sales of  more  than
1 billion Swiss francs each ? in some cases signifi- cantly more. The division’s operating profit margin before exceptional items also showed another sig- nificant improvement,  advancing from 25.0% to 27.4%.

Our powerful oncology portfolio was the key driver behind  these  superb  results. Roche is  the  only healthcare company with five medicines for cancer on the market that have been shown to increase patient  survival.  Within  the  space of just a few years, a new generation of more targeted, less toxic anticancer medicines have made Roche the global market  leader  in  oncology. We  reinforced  this leadership last year with sales growth of 42%. The innovative new additions to our oncology portfolio ? Avastin for colorectal cancer and Tarceva for lung cancer ? are already very well established.

New Roche medicines were also launched success- fully in other therapeutic areas, and supplemental approvals for new indications spurred a significant increase in prescriptions of some of our existing drugs. Last year Roche captured the attention  of health  professionals  and  the  public  with  some exciting new clinical data. These include data show- ing that Herceptin can make a significant difference in  the  early-stage treatment  of aggressive breast cancers. In clinical trials  involving nearly 13,000 women,  adding  Herceptin  to  standard  therapy halved the risk of cancer recurrence compared with standard therapy alone. And in a trial of MabThera/ Rituxan   in   lymphoma   patients,   maintenance therapy with the drug was shown to increase sur- vival so dramatically that the tide may now  also be turning  in the battle against certain forms of this  disease. A claim like this  would  have been unthinkable a few years ago.

As these  examples illustrate, drug  research  and development does not and should not stop as soon as a drug is approved in its first indication. Taking the development of anticancer drugs to a new level is one of the core missions of our global research organisation.

We also made significant progress on projects to develop novel biotherapeutics for rheumatoid arthri- tis, a common disease characterised by progressive inflammation,   and   in   most   cases  progressive destruction, of  the joints. Clinical trial data have confirmed  that  our  top-selling anticancer  medi- cine, MabThera/Rituxan, offers a completely new approach  to  treating  rheumatoid  arthritis.  And a product  being developed by our  Chugai sub- division has also been shown in clinical trials to slow joint damage significantly and  dramatically improve the disease’s painful, disabling symptoms. The chances are good, I believe, that  Roche  will soon be a major player in this disease area.

Responding to the threat  of a potential flu pan- demic was one of the  year’s greatest challenges. Roche has  acted energetically and responsibly to meet  increased  global  demand   for  its  leading influenza drug,  Tamiflu. Among other  steps, we promptly  initiated  a  massive  scale-up  of  production  capacity at our  own risk and adopted  a pricing policy that provides significant discounts on deliveries of the drug for pandemic use, and we have given over five million packs of Tamiflu to the World  Health  Organization  as a rapid  response stockpile for use at the epicentre of a potential pan- demic and to help establish regional stockpiles of the drug. In addition, we have granted our first sub- licences for production  of the drug for pandemic use and are holding in-depth  talks with a dozen companies that could provide additional manufac- turing support if necessary.

For Roche Diagnostics 2005 was a year focused on launching new products, particularly for diabetes management. And it was also a year in which the division expanded into markets where it had never competed before ? notably DNA sequencing. While market conditions continue to be difficult, Roche Diagnostics  maintained  its leading market  posi- tion, with sales advancing 4% in local currencies to 8.2 billion Swiss francs. The division’s  immuno- diagnostics and  molecular diagnostics portfolios were the main growth drivers.

Roche Diagnostics posted an operating profit of 1.7 billion Swiss francs before exceptional items, matching the all-time high of the previous year. Divisional   profitability  remained   high  for  the industry, despite a slight decrease in the operating profit margin, to 20.5%. Strong pricing pressures, production  start-up costs and the costs related to the many new products launches during the year were the main reasons for this decline.

As the global market leader, we feel we have an obli- gation to supply advanced diagnostics that make a significant  contribution  to effective, cost-efficient patient  care. Our  new generation  of Accu-Chek products   for   improved   diabetes  management, which we began launching worldwide in 2005, is a perfect case in point. The response has also been very strong to the European and US launches of our AmpliChip CYP450 Test, a product  that takes us another step closer to personalised medicine. Using this  DNA microarray  test, doctors  can  gauge a patient’s ability to metabolise certain drugs based on the patient’s genetic profile ? information which can then help guide drug selection and dosing deci- sions. Additional DNA microarray tests, for cancer screening, are currently in late-stage development.

Reflecting the  Group’s  strong  performance,  we created 3,600 new jobs last year, bringing the total number  of  Roche employees worldwide to  over 68,000. I would like to  take this opportunity  to express my thanks to all our people for their dedi- cation and professionalism. The value they create every working day is vital if Roche is to continue to invest in developing innovative solutions for areas of unmet medical need. By helping to make patient care more effective, and hence more cost-efficient, our  clinically differentiated medicines and  diag- nostics will play an increasingly important  role in easing the pressure on healthcare budgets.

For decades Roche has been actively committed to socially and environmentally sustainable develop- ment, as well as to delivering long-term benefits to patients. At the end of last year not only were we reselected for inclusion in both Dow Jones Sustain- ability Indexes and the FTSE4Good Index, we were also ranked second in the pharmaceutical industry category. This is a  tribute  to  our  sustainability efforts, and something I am  very pleased about. I am equally pleased that several highly respected publications, including Fortune and  Science, have included us in their lists of the best companies to work for.

Roche has always striven to be a responsible cor- porate  citizen as well as a healthcare innovator. The action we are taking to ensure the availability of Tamiflu in the event of a pandemic is a recent example of how seriously we take our wider respon- sibilities as a company. We also set high standards with our  policies and  practices regarding trans- parency in clinical research. We disclose negative as well as positive results from our  late-stage trials, and early last year we also began publishing data  from all our clinical trials on the Internet. In addi- tion,  Roche  has  established  an   independently hosted,  publicly  accessible online  trial  protocol registry that provides information in clear, simple language.

Our commitment to corporate social responsibility also extends to the world’s least developed coun- tries. Ours is one of the few companies still doing research on HIV/AIDS, and it is also one of the few companies that supplies medicines at cost and does not enforce patent rights in the poorest developing countries. In addition, in early 2006 we announced that we would provide the technical expertise to manufacture  the AIDS drug saquinavir to inter- ested manufacturers in Least Developed Countries at no cost.

Clearly, the greatest contribution  we can make to sustainability is to continue  developing new and better solutions for unmet medical needs. But we also recognise that our continued viability and suc- cess as an innovative company depend on our doing business in a socially and environmentally respon- sible way.

Our  outlook  remains very positive. Thanks to  a portfolio  of  innovative  products,  we  are  well positioned to continue creating value. In 2006 we expect both divisions to achieve above-market sales growth in local currencies, and our target is for core earnings per share to rise in line with Group sales.



Franz B. Humer

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Roche 2006



2006 was  another   year  of  strong  growth  and outstanding  financial performance at Roche. The Group’s sales rose 17% in local currencies to a record high of 42 billion Swiss francs. This 6.5 billion Swiss franc revenue  increase over 2005 reflects organic growth. Top-line growth was driven primarily by the Pharmaceuticals Division, where sales advanced at more than three times the market growth rate in
2006. Roche Diagnostics maintained its leadership position  in  an  increasingly competitive  market, thanks  to  numerous  new product  launches and continued growth in all of the division’s business areas.

The Group’s  earnings performance improved sig- nificantly again last year. Operating profit (before exceptional items) increased by 27% in local cur- rencies to 11.7 billion Swiss francs. The Group’s operating profit margin increased further, to 27.9%. At the same time, we invested more in our divisions’ rich research and  development pipelines and also increased spending on launch activities and the con- struction of new biotech manufacturing facilities.

Net  financial  income  was also  up  significantly compared with 2005. Total net income rose by one- third to 9.2 billion Swiss francs ? the highest profit ever recorded by Roche. Core Earnings per Share (Core EPS) rose 26%.

The Board of Directors will propose that the divi- dend for 2006 be increased by 36% to 3.40 Swiss francs per share and non-voting equity security (up from 2.50 Swiss francs in 2005). Subject to your approval at the Annual General Meeting of Share- holders, this will be our 20th  consecutive dividend increase.

As I indicated before, the Pharmaceuticals Division was the main driver behind the Group’s  excellent results in  2006. Its sales exceeded 33 billion Swiss francs, an increase of 21% in local currencies in a  market  that   averaged  6%  growth  last  year. This robust increase was driven primarily by sus- tained strong demand  for  our  cancer medicines, continued   government  stockpiling  of  the  anti- influenza drug Tamiflu and sales of Bonviva/Boniva, for  osteoporosis.  Oncology, transplantation   and virology are currently our three leading therapeutic franchises. Very importantly,  sales of  our  cancer medicines surged approximately 40% to 15 billion Swiss francs, and now account for half of the divi- sion’s total revenues. For the first time, the Pharma- ceuticals Division’s operating profit (before excep- tional items) exceeded 10 billion Swiss francs, and its operating profit margin rose significantly, to 31.7%.

The Diagnostics Division posted sales of 8.7 billion Swiss francs, a 5% increase in local currencies over the previous year. After a slow start, sales growth accelerated to slightly above the market growth rate in the second half of the year, helped by the roll- out  of new products.  Once again, the  division’s Centralized Diagnostics business ? particularly the immunodiagnostics portfolio ? was the main con- tributor   to  growth.  With  the  new  portfolio  of Accu-Chek  blood  glucose  monitoring   products now on the market, we expect Roche Diabetes Care to return  to above-market growth as well. Divi- sional operating profit (before exceptional  items) declined 21% in local currencies to approximately
1.4 billion Swiss francs. The decrease was primarily due to higher costs for new product launches and ongoing pricing pressure in the division’s markets. Operating profit was also impacted by impairment charges on  intangible assets relating to the Dise- tronic acquisition in 2003.

Roche’s  strategy remains firmly focused on  pre- scription medicines and modern diagnostics. With our   increased  financial  strength,  we  have  the resources  for  targeted  business-building  invest- ments in both of these core businesses. Developing healthcare innovations ? products and services rep- resenting real advances in the fight against serious diseases ? is the most important thing Roche does, and  our  mission  is  not  about  to  change. Our research and development activities are aimed at extending patients’ lives and improving their health and quality of life. Worldwide, we spend 18 million Swiss francs every day in pursuit of these objectives. Last year R & D expenditure in the Pharmaceuticals Division amounted  to 17.7% of sales. In absolute figures, total R & D expenditure for the Group rose to well over 6 billion Swiss francs in 2006, making Roche one of the most research-intensive compa- nies in the industry.

We  plan  to  intensify  cooperation  between  our Pharmaceuticals  and   Diagnostics  Divisions  in major therapeutic areas, in order to deliver more products  tailored to the needs of specific patient populations.  The  benefits of more  precise diag- noses and  better  targeted treatments  are already evident ? particularly in  oncology. Tighter cross- divisional linkages between our research, develop- ment and marketing organisations will strengthen our ability to actively shape the future of therapeu- tics and diagnostics.

Roche has been reselected for inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes and the FTSE4Good Index Series. This is recognition of our efforts to balance corporate responsibility with our business objectives and core mission to innovate healthcare. We believe that making sustainability an integral part of our business model and operations fosters innovation, minimises business risks and creates value for all stakeholders.

In the final analysis, of course, it is Roche’s people who have made it the prosperous, innovative com- pany it is today. Thanks to their untiring dedication 
and professionalism, Roche is able to bring prod- ucts and services to market that make a real differ- ence in patients’ lives. Our strong businesses con- tinued to create new jobs last year. In 2006 the total number of Roche employees worldwide increased by about 4,600 to over 74,000. I would like to take this  additional  opportunity  to  thank  all of  the Roche Group’s employees for the tremendous job they have been doing, and  continue  to  do, in a tough and challenging marketplace. The awards we received last year for being an outstanding  com- pany to work for are a special source of pride to all of us at Roche.

Without  innovation, medical progress and access to  quality healthcare are unsustainable. For that reason, it is vital to raise awareness of the role that pricing and patent protection play in the industry’s ability to innovate. Roche will continue to actively engage with policymakers and the public on these issues.

Tomorrow’s healthcare market will offer enormous opportunities and pose some enormous challenges. At Roche we can pursue those opportunities  and tackle those challenges with confidence and from a position of strength. With our strategy of focused innovation and our portfolio of new products, we are well equipped for sustained growth. In 2007 we once again expect the Group’s and the Pharmaceu- ticals Division’s sales to grow at double-digit rates in local currencies, and we expect to see continued above-market sales growth in both divisions. We are aiming for Core EPS to increase in line with Group sales.



Franz B. Humer

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Roche 2007


Dear Shareholders,

Your company achieved outstanding results again in 2007, despite tougher  market  conditions. For the  seventh  straight year the Roche Group’s  sales increased  by  double-digits,  advancing  10%  to
46 billion Swiss francs. This more than 4 billion Swiss franc  increase  in  sales revenues  was  all achieved organically. Once again, the Pharmaceu- ticals Division was the main growth driver. Its sales grew almost twice as fast as the global pharmaceu- ticals market. The Diagnostics Division maintained its position as the global market leader in in vitro diagnostics, with divisional sales increasing slightly ahead of the market. Revenue  growth again out- paced costs, resulting in  another  significant im- provement in the Group’s earnings performance. In view of Roche’s excellent full-year results, the Board of Directors will propose that the dividend for 2007 be increased by 35% to 4.60 Swiss francs per share and non-voting equity security (up from 3.40 Swiss francs for 2006). Subject to your approval at the next Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, this will be Roche’s  21st   consecutive annual  dividend increase.

While  research  and  development  expenses  in- creased 16% to 8.4 billion Swiss francs, and thus grew  faster  than sales, overall costs increased less than sales as a result of a variety of programmes to increase  productivity.  This  had  a  very positive impact  on  profitability.  The  Group’s  operating profit rose 22% to 14.5 billion Swiss francs, and the corresponding profit margin advanced by 3.5 per- centage  points  to  31.4%.   Our   Group’s   strong operating  performance,  combined  with  a  lower effective tax rate, boosted net income 25% to well over 11 billion Swiss francs. This record income includes  no  exceptional  items. As a  result,  the Group’s  equity ratio and balance sheet were also strengthened further.

Roche’s operating profit has more than tripled since 2001, while the operating profit margin has nearly doubled during the same period. This impressive growth  is   reflected  in  our  Core  Earnings  per Share, which over the last 5 years has averaged 22% growth annually. In  2007 we achieved 20% Core EPS growth.

Looking to the future, one very positive develop- ment is that the portfolio of products driving our business success is much broader now than it was even a few years ago. The Pharmaceuticals Division currently has nine medicines that generate annual revenues of over 1 billion Swiss francs, with six of them producing more than 2 billion Swiss francs in annual   sales. And  the  Diagnostics Division has three product lines that generate revenues of over
1 billion Swiss francs annually. Very importantly, except for CellCept, none of our major products is facing  patent  expiry over the next several years. In  this time we will continue  to  strengthen  our portfolio by launching new medicines ? as we did in 2007 with Mircera and as we expect to do soon with Actemra ?  and  by gaining additional  new indications for our leading cancer medicines.

In 2007 we further enhanced our ability to innovate in  our  five main  therapeutic  areas  of  interest: oncology,  virology, inflammatory diseases, meta- bolic diseases and diseases of the central nervous system. Each of  these  areas now encompasses all activities from drug discovery and clinical develop- ment   to   strategic   marketing.  By  streamlining decision-making processes, we believe this funda- mentally new approach will enable us to translate research activities into  marketed  products  more efficiently and effectively. During the year we also reinforced  our  presence in  China  by opening  a clinical development  centre  for  pharmaceuticals in Shanghai. Our pharmaceutical operations in this key emerging market  now span the entire  value chain from research and clinical development to manufacturing, marketing and distribution.

Construction work on our new biotech manufac- turing facilities in Basel (Switzerland) and Penzberg (Germany) went very quickly, with both buildings being completed on schedule in 2007. These facili- ties, representing a total investment of 800 million Swiss francs, will help us to meet the steadily grow- ing demand for our cancer medicines Avastin and Herceptin, along with demand  for future  Roche medicines, over the medium to long term.

In 2007 we continued to invest heavily in new tech- nologies. This included acquiring or entering into alliances  with  leading  companies  in  pioneering new fields such as DNA sequencing, microarrays, therapeutic   antibodies  and  RNAi  therapeutics. Transactions like these open the way to developing new and better diagnostic tests and treatments for complex diseases.

In January 2008 we signed a merger agreement with the US-based diagnostics company Ventana Medi- cal Systems, Inc. The acquisition will enable us to move into the fast-growing market for tissue-based diagnostics. Acquiring Ventana will contribute  to our efforts to develop and commercialise person- alised healthcare solutions in oncology.

Our strategy remains firmly focused on innovating healthcare. In the medium to long term, our global research network, strengths in biotechnology and leadership as a developer of diagnostic products will remain sources of competitive advantage in a rapidly changing healthcare market, just as they are today. At the same time, we remain committed to combining and balancing our pursuit  of innova- tion with corporate social responsibility. In recog- nition of this, Roche was selected for inclusion in the Dow Jones STOXX and World  Sustainability Indexes for the fourth  consecutive year in 2007. And for progress related specifically to protecting the environment, we were honoured with an award for reducing our carbon dioxide emissions relative to sales by over 70% since 1996. Another indication of how integral sustainability and environmental protection are to the way we do business is the fact that over the last decade we have cut our energy use per Swiss franc of sales revenue in half. We believe that  sustainable policies and  practices not  only minimise business risks but also create value and promote innovation. 

As previously  announced,  the  Roche  Board  of Directors has voted to split the positions of Chair- man of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. At the Annual General Meeting on 4 March 2008 I will be stepping down as CEO after a decade in the post in order to concentrate on my duties as Chairman. In  designating  Severin  Schwan as  Roche’s  next CEO, the Board has selected an individual who at age 40  already has  an  impressive  track  record. Not only will Severin Schwan bring broad inter- national experience to his new role, gained  from a variety of divisional and corporate-level assign- ments, but he is also firmly committed to continu- ing our strategy of innovation. On 1 January 2008
J?rgen  Schwiezer succeeded  Severin Schwan as CEO of Roche Diagnostics. J?rgen Schwiezer has decades of  experience in the diagnostics business and has been instrumental in establishing Roche as the leader in Europe’s in vitro diagnostics market. In  March  Silvia Ayyoubi will join  Roche’s  Cor- porate Executive Committee as  the Group’s  most senior human resources executive; she will be the first woman ever to serve on the CEC. I am pleased to say that we were able to fill all three of these key positions  with  people  from  within  our  organi- sation. For my own part, you can be assured that as Chairman I will continue to work closely and energetically with the  Board and  the  Corporate Executive  Committee   to   help  achieve  Roche’s ambitious  goals as  one  of  the  world’s leading healthcare groups.

I would like to take this opportunity  to thank the roughly 79,000 Roche employees around the world for their contributions to the Group. Without their professionalism and dedication, Roche would not be the highly successful company it is today.

Significant challenges and opportunities  lie ahead for the healthcare industry, and Roche will be able to  tackle  them  with confidence from  a position of strength. For 2008 we expect to achieve a high single-digit increase in Group sales, with continued above-market sales growth in both Roche divisions. This excludes government  and  corporate  stock- piling orders for Tamiflu for pandemic use. Most of these orders have been filled over  the  last several years, so that we anticipate a considerable decrease in pandemic Tamiflu sales in 2008. This year we will again be substantially increasing our investment in research and development, particularly in phase III development projects, in order to capture the full potential of our strong pipeline. At the same time we are aiming for Core EPS for 2008 to remain at least at the same high level as in 2007.



Franz B. Humer

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Roche 2008

Dear Shareholders

The past year was dominated  by the global financial and economic crisis. Nevertheless, your com- pany continued to perform strongly, building on the achievements of previous years. Once again, the Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions’ sales grew well ahead of their respective markets. Group sales rose 10% in local currencies, excluding  pandemic Tamiflu sales, which, as expected, declined sharply. Including  pandemic Tamiflu, sales increased 6% to 45.6 billion Swiss francs.
The Group’s operating profit increased to almost 14 billion Swiss francs, even though we increased our research and development spending on promising projects in our strong development pipeline. Net income, at 10.8 billion Swiss francs, was down only slightly from the previous year’s record high, despite the marked appreciation of the Swiss franc against other major currencies and lower financial income. Core Earnings per Share (at constant exchange rates) were 2% higher than the year before. In view of these latest strong results, the Board of Directors will propose that the dividend for 2008 be increased by 9% to 5.00 Swiss francs per share and non-voting equity security (up from 4.60 Swiss francs for 2007). Subject to your approval at the next Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders, this will be Roche’s 22nd consecutive annual dividend increase.

In today’s turbulent economic climate, it is more vital than ever that we stay focused on developing products that significantly improve the treatment options available to patients. In recent years this strategy has yielded some major advances, notably in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer. We are particularly excited about the many large-scale clinical trials the Group is conducting with Avastin, the first targeted cancer medicine that halts the development of new blood vessels to tumours. While these trials require substantial investments of time and money, they hold out the promise of a longer, better life for countless patients suffering from a wide variety of cancers.

Ventana, the U S-based leader in tissue diagnostics which we acquired for 3.8 billion Swiss francs in February 2008, continues to perform even more strongly than expected. Having access to
tissue-based diagnostic tests and technologies will help us in our efforts to develop further per- sonalised treatments, particularly for cancer.

Roche has also made considerable progress in developing biological medicines for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), an autoimmune disease that affects over 21 million people worldwide. Our novel medicine Actemra/ RoActemra has been approved for the treatment of RA in Japan and the European Union. MabThera/ Rituxan, our leading cancer medicine, continues to show benefit in RA patients as well. Data from a phase I I I clinical trial, for example, show that MabThera/ Rituxan can prevent structural damage to joints in patients with early RA.

All told, twelve projects entered the final stage of clinical development at Roche in 2008, including three promising new molecules for the treatment of breast cancer (pertuzumab),  type 2 diabetes (taspoglutide)  and cardiovascular risk reduction (dalcetrapib).

On 21 July last year Roche announced  its intention to purchase all outstanding  shares of Genentech, a company in which we have held a majority stake for nearly 20 years. We remain committed to completing this transaction.

We believe that bringing Genentech entirely within the Roche Group will significantly enhance the Group’s ability to remain innovative over the long term. We will take the necessary care to preserve Genentech’s unique innovation culture. The Group will continue to encourage and promote a diver- sity of research approaches, because this helps create an ideal climate for medical progress. We will ensure that the existing research networks, technologies and expertise in our pharmaceuticals and diagnostics businesses can be shared across the Group. At the same time, we will leverage
the scale of our combined operations in the U S and improve operational  efficiency.

Roche is taking this step from a position of strength and in the conviction that the proposed
transaction  is in the best interests of both companies’ employees, patients and you, our share- holders. Roche’s Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee are confident  that this transaction will bring us significantly closer to our goal of being the world’s leading health- care company.

We remain committed to operating our businesses in a responsible, sustainable manner that
respects the needs of all our stakeholders. Our products are our greatest contribution to society; they provide significant benefits to patients, tangibly improving people’s health and increasing their quality and length of life. We recognise our responsibility to help expand global access to our products. We do this primarily through partnerships and in collaboration with various stakeholders.

Last year we achieved all of our environmental goals for improving energy efficiency and reducing emissions of greenhouse gases. We firmly believe that sustainable policies and business practices create long-term  corporate value and support innovation. In recognition of its efforts, Roche was selected for inclusion in the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index for the fifth consecutive year.

Finally, we would like to take this additional opportunity to thank the 80,000 Roche employees worldwide for their tremendous dedication and professionalism. Without their efforts, Roche would not be one of the world’s most successful companies. Recruiting, retaining and developing talented people remain among our most important tasks.

Barring unforeseen events, we expect the Group to continue to perform strongly in 2009. In both the Pharmaceuticals and the Diagnostics Division we expect full-year sales to grow ahead of the market, with increases in the mid-single-digit range in local currencies. We will continue to invest in the large-scale confirmatory  clinical trials that are vital to Roche’s long-term  success. Despite the higher research and development costs involved and an expected decrease in net financial income, we are aiming for Core Earnings per Share (Core E P S) at constant exchange rates to remain at the same high level as in 2008. We expect that the Genentech transaction will have a positive impact on Core E P S within the first year after closing.



Franz B. Humer
Chairman of the Board



Severin Schwan
Chief Executive Officer

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Roche 2009

Dear Shareholders

Despite the sustained global financial and economic crisis, 2009 was a very successful year for Roche. Sales in both the Pharmaceuticals and the Diagnostics Division grew twice as fast as the market. Group s ales increased by 10% in local currencies to 49.1 billion Swiss francs, mainly driven by our leading medicines
to treat patients with cancer, viral infections,  age-related blindness and other serious diseases. Sales of the influenza medicine Tamiflu, at 3.2 billion Swiss francs, also contributed significantly to revenue growth. Operating profit before exceptional items grew even more strongly than s ales, advancing 14% in local currencies to 15.0 billion Swiss francs.

2009 will be remembered as one of the most important years in your company’s long history. Following the merger agreement with Genentech in March 2009 and the rapid finalisation of the transaction, we were able to complete the integration by the end of the year. By combining Roche and Genentech we are not only increasing operational efficienc y but also promoting internal knowledge transfer. We are committed to strengthening the Roche Group’s innovative power in the long term and to providing patients with inno- vative medicines through research of the highest quality.

Excellent research is and will remain a basic requirement for the development of therapies that are decisive for patients’ health and quality of life. After concluding the Genentech integration we will continue to systematically pursue diverse research approaches for innovative healthcare solutions.  This creates scope for creativity and increases the chances of devising sustainable medical and therapeutic progress. For this reason Genentech Research and Early Development  will continue to function as an independent unit.

In addition, combining the activities of the two companies in the areas of product development, production and s ales has already generated significant increases in productivity. Our aim is to achieve pre-tax annual s avings of approximately 1 billion Swiss francs by 2011.

The operating free cash flow of the Group increased by 27% to 15.7 billion Swiss francs despite significant negative currenc y effects. Roche’s strong operating performance is also clearly reflected in Core Earnings per Share, which advanced 20% in local currencies (10% in Swiss francs).

As a result of exceptional costs of 2.7 billion Swiss francs, which were primarily integration-related, the Group’s operating profit in 2009 declined by 5% in local currencies (12% in Swiss francs) to 12.3 billion Swiss francs. Exceptional items also impacted net income, which declined by 22% compared with the previous-year period to 8.5 billion Swiss francs. Excluding exceptional items, net income attributable to Roche shareholders increased by 9%.

In view of Roche’s strong full-year operating results, at the Annual General Meeting the Board of Directors will propose an increase of 20% in the dividend for 2009 to 6.00 Swiss francs per share and non-voting equity security (2008: 5.00 Swiss francs). Subject to your approval, this will be the 23 rd consecutive annual dividend increase.

The rapid spread of the pandemic A (H1N1) influenza virus (‘swine  flu’), which began in April 2009,  pre- sented a major challenge not only for governments worldwide, but also for Roche during the past year. We have been supporting the World Health Organization (W H O) and national governments in global efforts
to fight the new virus. In May Roche announced that an additional  5.65 million treatment courses of Tamiflu would be donated to replenish the W H O’s regional and rapid-response stockpiles. We had previously granted sublicences to three manufacturers to produce generic oseltamivir for pandemic use in China, India and specified developing countries, to ensure that local populations in these areas have access to the medication. In addition, in July we initiated the Tamiflu Reserves Program to further improve Tamiflu access in developing countries. In response to the increased W H O pandemic threat level, our network of manufacturing partners scaled up production to approximately 33 million treatment courses per month, and we are now able to supply up to 400 million packs annually, if required.

The Roche Group received significant recognition for achievements in several areas during the past year. The Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes named Roche the new ‘Super Sector Leader’ in Healthcare, ranking us as the most sustainable healthcare company worldwide. Roche and Genentech were also again voted ‘best employer’ in a number of countries.

We would like to take this opportunity to thank the more than 80,000 Group employees worldwide for the outstanding dedication and professionalism during this eventful and challenging time.

Scientific excellence and innovation in our core pharma and diagnostics businesses will continue to be the foundation of our success. Aside from oncology, we are developing new therapeutics for metabolic and autoimmune diseases, viral infections and disorders of the central nervous system. As the world’s largest biotech company we have one of the most promising R & D pipelines in the world. From a total of 59 new molecular entities in clinical testing, ten are already in late stage development ? which is remarkable by any standards in our industry. In the last year alone, six new compounds entered late phase development, including potential new therapies for breast cancer and type 2 diabetes.

During the year we published exciting early phase clinical trial data on a targeted treatment and com- panion diagnostic in malignant melanoma patients whose cancer cells carry a specific genetic mutation; malignant melanoma is the deadliest form of skin cancer. The new compound effectively slowed tumor progression and increased patients’ quality of life. This is a beacon of hope in the fight against a cancer that until now has been regarded as virtually untreatable.

Among the key achievements in our Diagnostics Division are the start of the rollout of the cobas 8000 modular analyser series for large medical laboratories and the launch of new products in the Accu-Chek line of blood-glucose monitors for people with diabetes.

At the end of 2009 William M. Burns, C E O of the Pharmaceuticals Division, J?rgen Schwiezer, C E O of the Diagnostics Division, and Jonathan K.C. Knowles,  Head of Roche Group Research, left the Corporate Executive Committee as planned. Each of them has made significant contributions to Roche’s success and helped write an important chapter in the company’s  history. Every generation of managers has the task of ensuring Roche’s healthy future as an independent company. Bill Burns, Jonathan Knowles and J?rgen Schwiezer have fulfilled this task in an exemplary manner driven by profound conviction. They have 
significantly contributed to Roche’s strong market position and success. On behalf of the entire Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee, we would like to thank them for their many years of invaluable service, loyalty to Roche and for the great working relationship we enjoyed.

In view of their outstanding industry knowledge, the Board of Directors will propose appointing William
M. Burns and Arthur D. Levinson, Chairman of Genentech Board of Directors, to the Board of Directors of
Roche Holding Ltd at the Annual General Meeting on 2 March 2010.

Prof. Horst Teltschik and Peter Brabeck have decided not to stand for re-election at the 2010 Annual General Meeting. We are very grateful for their valuable contributions to the company over a period of many years.

Barring unforeseen events, we expect s ales in 2010 for the Pharmaceuticals Division and for the Group
to increase in the mid-single-digit range in local currencies 1. In the Diagnostics Division, we expect full-year sales to grow considerably ahead of the market. Furthermore, we are aiming to achieve double-digit
Core Earnings per Share growth at constant exchange rates in 2010. We anticipate that we will already have repaid 25% of the debt raised to finance the Genentech trans action by the end of 2010. Based on the Group’s strong operating free cash flow, Roche expects to return to a net cash position by the end of 2015. We will simultaneously  maintain  our attractive dividend polic y.


Franz B. Humer
Chairman of the Board


Severin Schwan
Chief Executive Officer

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

Bringing Genentech fully into the Roche
Group is a major step on the road to creating a stronger, even more innovative organization.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Roche 2010

Dear Shareholders

2010 was a challenging year­for­the­pharmaceutical­industry.­Market­conditions,­as­
anticipated­for­quite­some­time,­became­even­tougher.­In­the­wake­of­the­financial­
­crisis,­high­government­budget­deficits­added­to­pricing­pressures­in­the­global­health- care­sector.­In­Europe­many­governments­cut­drug­prices­significantly,­while­healthcare­ reform­in­the­U S­resulted­in­higher­rebates­on­prescription­drugs.­On­the­regulatory­ front,­the­hurdles­for­gaining­approval­of­new­medicines­were­raised­even­higher,­dra- matically­increasing­the­cost­of­drug­development­and­delaying­access­to­innovative­ treatments.

Amid­these­challenges,­Roche­posted­good­full-year­results.­However,­we­also­felt­the­ effects­of­the­market­changes­I’ve­just­described.­In­July­the­U S­Food­and­Drug­Admin- istration­(F DA)­rejected­our­application­for­accelerated­approval­of­T?D M1,­even­ though­this­novel­compound­is­expected­to­significantly­improve­the­treatment­of­breast­ cancer.­This­will­increase­the­clinical­development­costs­for­T?DM1­and­delay­this­
promising­drug’s­approval.­Late­in­the­year­the­FDA­announced­its­intention­to­withdraw­ approval­of­Avastin­in­combination­with­chemotherapy­for­first-line­treatment­of­meta- static­H E R2-negative­breast­cancer.­While­a­withdrawal­will­not­affect­U S­patients’­ access­to­Avastin­in­its­other­approved­cancer­indications,­it­would­adversely­impact­ patients­with­this­very­serious­disease.­The­day­the­F DA­made­its­announcement,­ ­ the­European­Medicines­Agency­(E MA)­confirmed­Avastin’s­value­in­the­fight­against­ breast­cancer.­In­Europe­women­with­advanced­breast­cancer­will­thus­continue­to­ have­access­to­this­treatment­option.­

We­are­closely­monitoring­developments­in­healthcare­policy­around­the­world.­Precisely­ because­we­believe­our­highly­innovative­products­contribute­in­important­ways­to­ ­ more­effective,­cost-efficient­healthcare­delivery,­we­consider­it­vital­for­the­future­that­ ­ policymakers­and­health­officials­look­not­only­at­the­costs­of­new­medicines­but­also­­ at­the­innovation­they­embody­and­the­benefits­they­offer­patients.­Given­the­many­dis- eases­that­still­cannot­be­treated­satisfactorily,­or­at­all,­medical­progress­should­be­ viewed­more­as­a­public­good­that­deserves­vigorous­political­support.

When­we­discuss­innovation­we­must­bear­in­mind­that­it­is­inherently­risky.­Pioneering­ research­and­development­efforts­sometimes­produce­breakthroughs,­but­they­also­can­ sometimes­not­achieve­the­desired­endpoints.­Taspoglutide­is­a­case­in­point.­We­sus- pended­a­late-stage­development­programme­on­this­new­treatment­for­type­2­diabetes­ at­a­very­late­stage­of­development­after­careful­assessment­of­the­available­safety­and­ efficacy­data.

Our­intense­research­and­development­activities­also­yielded­some­very­strong­and­ promising­results­last­year.­We­currently­have­twelve­new­molecular­entities­in­late-stage­ development,­half­of­which­are­designed­for­targeted­use­in­specific­patient­populations­ with­the­help­of­companion­diagnostic­tests.­We­have­made­enormous­progress­in­ personalised­healthcare,­helped­by­the­close­interplay­between­our­Pharmaceuticals­ and­Diagnostics­Divisions.­These­developments­represent­major­strides­and­make­us­ confident­that­we­will­remain­an­industry­leader.­

Roche­convincingly­met­its­sales­and­earnings­targets­for­2010.­Excluding­sales­of­our­ influenza­medicine,­Tamiflu,­which­as­expected­were­down­sharply­for­the­year,­Group­ s ales­rose­5%­in­local­currencies.­Net­income­attributable­to­Roche­shareholders­ showed­a­strong­increase,­advancing­11%­to­8.7­billion­Swiss­francs­despite­the­costs­ associated­with­the­‘Operational­Excellence’­programme­amounting­to­a­considerable­­
1.3­billion­Swiss­francs.­Core­Earnings­per­Share,­a­key­indicator­of­underlying­business­
performance,­increased­10%­in­local­currencies­(4%­in­Swiss­francs).

In­view­of­the­company’s­healthy­cash­flow­and­positive­outlook­the­Board­of­Directors­
will­propose­a­dividend­increase­for­2010­of­10%­to­6.60­Swiss­francs­per­share­and­
non-voting­equity­security­(up­from­6.00­Swiss­francs­for­2009).­Subject­to­your­ approval­at­the­Annual­General­Meeting­(AG M),­this­will­be­Roche’s­24­th­consecutive­ annual­dividend­increase.

Looking­ahead­to­the­Annual­General­Meeting­on­1­March­2011,­I­would­like­to­mention­ the­upcoming­changes­on­the­Board­of­Directors.­Walter­Frey­and­Wolfgang­Ruttens- torfer­have­decided­not­to­stand­for­re-election.­On­behalf­of­the­entire­Board,­I­would­ like­to­thank­them­both­for­their­dedicated­service­to­Roche.­During­his­long­tenure­on­ the­Board­Mr­Frey,­who­runs­a­highly­successful­family­company,­has­made­significant­ contributions­to­the­Group’s­growth­and­success.­Among­the­strengths­Mr­Ruttenstorfer­ brought­to­the­Board,­his­expertise­on­the­growth­markets­in­Eastern­Europe­and­the­ Middle­East­has­been­particularly­valuable.

We­intend­to­use­this­opportunity­to­strengthen­the­Board­further­by­nominating­addi-­
tional­independent­directors.­As­announced­in­December,­Paul­Bulcke­(CEO­Nestl?­S.A.),­
­Christoph­Franz­(chairman­and­CEO­Deutsche­Lufthansa­AG)­and­Peter­R.­Voser­ ­
(C E O­Royal­Dutch­Shell­plc)­will­be­standing­for­election­as­new­members­of­the­Board.

At­the­Annual­General­Meeting­we­will­also­propose­that­the­term­of­Board­members­ ­ be­reduced­from­three­to­two­years.­This­will­enable­shareholders­to­influence­the­com- position­of­the­Board­at­shorter­intervals­in­future.

After­ten­years­of­exceptional­service­on­the­Corporate­Executive­Committee,­Erich­ Hunziker­has­decided­to­retire­from­Roche­at­the­end­of­March­2011.­Erich­Hunziker­was­ appointed­Chief­Financial­Officer­in­2001,­becoming­Deputy­Head­of­the­Corporate­ Executive­Committee­in­2005.­During­his­long­career­at­Roche,­Erich­Hunziker­was­one­ of­the­key­architects­of­the­Group’s­successful­development.­I­would­like­to­take­this­ opportunity­to­thank­Erich­Hunziker­sincerely­for­his­outstanding­contribution­to­the­ Group’s­overall­success.­ ­

The­Board­of­Directors­has­appointed­Alan­Hippe­to­succeed­Erich­Hunziker­as­Chief­ Financial­Officer.­Alan­Hippe­will­join­Roche­as­a­member­of­the­Corporate­Executive­ Committee­as­of­April­2011.­Alan­Hippe­served­as­a­member­of­the­executive­board­of­ Continental­AG­from­2002­to­2009.­Since­April­2009­he­has­been­CFO­and­a­member­­ of­the­executive­board­of­ThyssenKrupp­AG.

Our­company­was­honoured­last­year­for­outstanding­achievements­in­a­number­of­ areas.­I­am­particularly­pleased­that­the­Dow­Jones­Sustainability­Indexes­named­us­the­ Supersector­Leader­in­healthcare­for­the­second­year­in­a­row,­ranking­Roche­as­the­ world’s­most­sustainable­healthcare­company.­We­firmly­believe­that­sustainable­corpo- rate­policies­and­practices­ultimately­create­long-term­value­and­promote­innovation.­

Our­success­as­a­company­is­built­on­scientific­excellence­that­benefits­patients.­The­ successful­integration­of­Genentech­has­further­strengthened­our­innovative­capa- bilities­as­the­world’s­largest­biotech­company­and­the­leading­supplier­of­cancer­medi- cines.­We­lead­in­personalised­healthcare,­are­the­world’s­number­one­supplier­of­ ­
in vitro­diagnostics­and­have­outstanding­product­portfolios­in­both­the­Pharmaceuticals­
and­the­Diagnostics­Division.

Our­ability­to­create­value­for­all­stakeholders­is­crucial­to­our­future­success­and­we­
will­continue­to­vigorously­pursue­this­strategy.

Franz­B.­Humer­
Chairman­of­the­Board

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Roche 2011

Dear Shareholders

The deepening debt crises in Europe and the United States, turbulent currency markets and slower global economic growth all had a profound impact on the business landscape in 2011. Increasing pressure on government budgets also weighed heavily on healthcare markets. With resources stretched, many countries are focusing on short-term savings targets and budget controls. A number of governments, particularly in Europe, have sought to ease their deficits by imposing substantial price cuts on pharmaceuticals ? including innovative, patent-protected  medicines ? along with other measures aimed at controlling or reducing healthcare expenditure.

Amid these challenges Roche posted very strong results for the year. Group sales advanced 2% at constant exchange rates (excluding Tamiflu) to 42.2 billion Swiss francs. Earnings performance improved significantly faster, with net income rising 7% to 9.5 billion Swiss francs.

I am also very pleased that the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes once again named us the Super- sector Leader in healthcare, ranking Roche as the world’s most sustainable healthcare company for the third consecutive year. We are convinced that sustainable corporate policies and practices create long-term value and promote innovation. They therefore support our primary mission as a company, which is to prolong people’s lives or improve quality of life through excellence in science.

For a research-based company like ours, recent developments in healthcare policy and policy- makers’ short-term focus on costs are a major cause for concern. Of course I understand that Roche as a leading pharmaceutical and diagnostics company ? and indeed, our industry as a whole ? must play its part in efforts to overcome the current financial and debt crises. We are pre- pared to do that. Through constructive dialogue we aim to contribute to finding a fair and sus- tainable balance between health policy and industrial policy ? a balance that encourages and rewards the type of innovation from which society as a whole will benefit.

In my nearly four decades of working in the healthcare industry, I have rarely been as optimistic as I am now about the medium- to long-term outlook for research-based, innovation-driven companies. The fundamental trends point in the right direction: a growing, ageing global population; increas- ingly affluent emerging markets; rapid scientific and technological advances that are paving the way for more targeted, cost-effective treatments; and an undiminished need for medical progress, since many diseases are still not effectively treated.

We must not forget the increasing economic significance of innovation and the fact that nations, regions and communities around the globe compete with each other for investment and jobs. We see countries increasingly taking targeted action to promote research and innovation within their borders. I am very impressed by the progress Shanghai, Beijing, Singapore and other cities in emerging markets have made as they strive to become global leaders in the life sciences, particularly in pharmaceuticals and diagnostics. Moreover, their positive attitude and openness towards new scientific discoveries and technologies are definite assets.

These countries recognise that the research-based healthcare industry’s high productivity can translate into significant economic growth, generating skilled jobs, further investment and exports. High expenditures on research and development lead ultimately to strong value creation. Much of Roche’s R&D activity continues to be located at our headquarters in Switzerland precisely because of the country’s competitive advantage. Switzerland will remain one of the best places in the world for investments in science if we can maintain and strengthen these innovation-pro- moting advantages.

Why am I particularly optimistic about our company’s future? For over a decade now Roche has maintained its strategic focus on innovative diagnostics and therapeutics. As the world’s biggest biotech company, with 14 biopharmaceuticals on the market, we are ideally equipped to transform our growing knowledge of disease biology into novel treatments and tests. In 2011 we spent 8 billion Swiss francs on research and development ? a sum that puts us among the top R&D spenders, regardless of the industry. Unlike some of our competitors, we intend to continue invest- ing heavily in research and development, particularly in those areas where we have competitive advantages: oncology, diabetes, inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, and neuroscience. At
the same time, we will maintain our strong focus on the optimal use of resources and continued productivity improvements.

Roche remains the world’s leading supplier of cancer medicines and the number one in vitro diag- nostics company. With its combined strengths in pharmaceuticals and diagnostics and proven expertise in molecular biology, our company is uniquely positioned to make Personalised Healthcare a reality. The achievements of the past year ? the US launch of Zelboraf in record time, the Euro- pean Medicines Agency’s positive opinion on this novel treatment for skin cancer and the progress of other projects in our development pipeline ? are all testimony to this.

Cost-effective, targeted medicines and diagnostics have a key role to play in overcoming the health- care sector’s current difficulties. As pricing pressures increase, payers will shift resources to products and services offering the greatest incremental benefit to patients. As a company focused on developing medicines and tests that create real value for patients and physicians, we are well equipped to compete successfully in an increasingly challenging healthcare market. The strengths that serve us well today will be even more important tomorrow.

In view of the company’s strong performance and positive outlook ? the difficult economic and financial environment notwithstanding ? the Board of Directors is proposing a dividend increase of 3% to 6.80 per share and non-voting equity security for 2011 (up from 6.60 Swiss francs in 2010). Subject to your approval at the Annual General Meeting on 6 March 2012, this will be Roche’s 25th consecutive annual dividend increase.

Finally, I want to inform you that Andr? Hoffmann and Prof. Sir John Irving Bell, two highly experi- enced and distinguished Roche Board members, have agreed to stand for election for a further term at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. I will be standing for re-election as Chairman and would be honoured by your continued confidence.


Franz B. Humer
Chairman of the Board

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Roche 2012

Letter to Shareholders from Franz B. Humer

Dear Shareholders,

Group  sales increased  4%, at constant  exchange  rates, to 45.5 billion Swiss francs (+7% in Swiss francs), with both the Pharmaceuticals and  Diagnostics  Divisions  growing faster than their respective markets. Roche delivered strong growth in the United States  and  the emerging  markets,  whilst  in Europe we continued to feel pricing pressure from healthcare budget cuts. Our focus on high­value medicines and diagnos­ tic tests, however, meant that, relative to the rest of the indus­ try, our sales in Europe held up well.

In general, what we are seeing is an increasing shift from the established markets, especially in Europe, to the faster grow­
ing emerging market nations in Asia and Latin America, where Roche already records a fifth of its sales. Cancer and cardio­ vascular disease are now among the leading causes of death in emerging economies and demand for our medicines is rising as a result. We are actively expanding our position in Asia and Latin America, thereby improving global access to our medi­ cines and diagnostics products.

We have optimised our organisational structure  over the past year, adapting our processes to this changing market environ­ ment. A notable move was the closure of the Roche site in Nutley, New Jersey in the United States as part of the consolidation of research  and early­stage  development  activities. Closing the site was not an easy decision. Nutley has played a pivotal role in the company’s success over the past 80 years.

Core operating  profit for 2012 again improved  significantly, while net income was slightly higher at 9.8 billion Swiss francs, as the good operating performance was offset by costs associ­ ated with a number of major restructuring  programmes and a higher tax rate. On a comparable basis, core net income was up 10% over the previous­year period at constant exchange rates (+11% in Swiss francs).

Another highlight for the year was the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes naming Roche Supersector Leader for the fourth con­ secutive  year, ranking  us  as the world’s  most  sustainable healthcare company.

Leading the way in personalised healthcare
As a leader in personalised healthcare, Roche is uniquely posi­ tioned to develop treatments that raise current standards of care and extend and improve the lives of patients. Some 60% of the projects in our pharmaceuticals pipeline are being devel­ oped in conjunction with companion diagnostic tests. In 2012 we further strengthened Personalised Healthcare, launching the cancer medicines Perjeta, for breast cancer and Zelboraf, for melanoma, alongside their companion diagnostics.

Medical  innovation not only benefits  patients, but also our partners in the healthcare market, payers, the economy and society in general. Regrettably, in Europe in particular, there continues to be too much focus on costs and short­term think­ ing, which harbours the risk of missing longer­term opportuni­  ties for our economy and society. This longer­term perspective tends to be neglected in the discussions about rising health­ care costs, as does the contribution that pharmaceuticals and diagnostics make to medical progress.

Sustainable success ? and  this  applies  not  only  to Roche but to business  generally  ? requires long­term thinking and for­ ward­looking  investments. Innovation is, and will continue to be, the motor driving our long­term  success. This success story must be continued through open dialogue between poli­ ticians and industry.

Board to propose 7.35 Swiss francs dividend for 2012
In view of these good results, the Board of Directors is propos­ ing an 8% dividend increase, to 7.35 Swiss francs per share and non­voting equity security (2011: 6.80 Swiss francs). More than half of net income will be distributed to shareholders  as dividends. Subject to your approval, this will be our 26th  divi­ dend increase in as many years.

As previously announced, Prof. Bruno Gehrig and Lodewijk J.R. de Vink (both members of the Board of Directors since 2004) have decided not to stand for re­election to the Board of Directors  at our next Annual General Meeting. During their many years of service, both have made exceptionally valuable contributions  to the growth of our company. We owe them a debt of gratitude.

The Board of Directors proposes the election of Dr Severin Schwan,  CEO of the Roche Group,  as a new member of the Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd. This will enable the Board  of Directors  and  Corporate  Executive Committee  to work together even more closely, which will help promote the growth of the company in today’s challenging market environ­ ment.

The  two new Corporate   Executive  Committee  members announced  in the second  half of 2012 were recruited  from within  the company:  Daniel  O’Day, former  Chief Operating Officer (COO) of the Diagnostics Division, was appointed COO of the Pharmaceuticals Division effective 1 September 2012. Roland Diggelmann, former Head of the Asia?Pacific region within Roche Diagnostics, was appointed  as a new member of the Corporate  Executive Committee  and  Daniel  O’Day’s successor as COO of the Diagnostics Division.

In its newly constituted  form, the Corporate Executive Com­ mittee will continue to progress the Group’s current strategic course  and  sustainably  drive  Roche’s  success  as a global leader in healthcare. Clinical differentiation is the key to serving patients’ medical needs in a better, safer and more cost­effec­  tive way, which is even more crucial in this increasingly cost­ sensitive environment.

Roche  will continue to advance its  successful  strategy  of focus and innovation ? for the benefit of patients, physicians, employees and you, our shareholders.


Franz B. Humer
Chairman of the Board

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Supplementary Information 

High levels of public debt, especially in Europe and the United States, and the continued strength of the emerging economies were the two dominant influences on the healthcare sector in 2012, bringing both challenges and opportunities. Overall, it was a demanding year for the industry and one where cost pressure in many markets continued to increase.
Notwithstanding these challenges, Roche again posted very good results for the year, with a firm strategy of developing medically differentiated medicines and diagnostic products for diseases in areas of high unmet medical need.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Roche 2013

Dear Shareholders

In my last letter to you as Chairman, it gives me great pleasure to report an excellent performance for the Roche Group in 2013. In a challenging, increasingly cost-sensitive environment, our focus on targeted medicines and diagnostic tests has allowed us to expand our strong market position and to significantly improve net income. In light of our strong performance, the Board of Directors is proposing ? for the 27th consecutive year ? an increase in dividend.

Roche posted strong results for 2013. Group sales increased 6% at constant exchange rates to 46.8 billion Swiss francs (+3% in Swiss francs) and overall net income grew sharply, up 22% to 11.4 billion Swiss francs (+18% in Swiss francs).

There is increasing demand for our medicines and diagnostic tests, especially the five new cancer treatments we launched over the last two years; and our pipelines are amongst the strongest in the industry. The 2013 results reaffirm the Roche strategy of focusing on innovation in medicines and diagnostics ? and the resulting competitive advantage from developing medically differentiated products. Our strengths will become even more important in the future, as targeted, cost-effective treatments have a key role to play in overcoming today’s healthcare challenges. Roche is developing medicines which not only improve and prolong the lives of patients, but can also save significant resources in other parts of the healthcare sector. To this end, diagnostic testing is increasingly playing a critical role in the detection of disease, the monitoring of treatment modalities and in the development of targeted treatments, all of which reduce overall costs to the healthcare system.

One of Roche’s strengths is our significant biotech know-how. Our expertise in this area opens up a world of new possibilities to treat disease, bringing real medical breakthroughs to patients. Our leadership in biotech is also the result of targeted acquisitions. The Genentech merger in 2009 was the transaction that has had the biggest impact on our pharmaceuticals business and in diagnostics, we became the market leader when we acquired Boehringer Mannheim in 1997. Over the past 15 years, with our systematic focus on innovation and selective transactions, Roche has become the world’s leading company in oncology and the global number one in in vitro diagnostics. This focus on pharmaceuticals and diagnostics will enable us to succeed in an increasingly competitive marketplace.

There is no doubt in my mind that Roche is a unique company and this is as true today as it was two decades ago when I joined. It is unique because of its culture and unique because of the majority ownership by the original founding family, which allows us to take a long-term view and to pursue our long-term strategy to develop innovative products. The Hoffmann and Oeri families have my sincere gratitude for all the support they have given me throughout my career at Roche.

Our selection once again by the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices as the world’s most sustainable healthcare company, is just another indication that Roche is on the right track. Roche was singled out for this distinction for the fifth year in a row in 2013. This rating recognises our commitment to behaving ethically and responsibly and creating long-term value for all our stakeholders.

The foundations of Roche are rock-solid. But as my predecessor used to say: ‘the house of Roche is never finished’. No company has an automatic right to prosperity. It needs to be earned again and again. I am very confident that the new generation of leaders in our Executive Committee under Severin Schwan’s leadership, and on the Board of Directors, will continue to build a successful business and enrich the Roche culture.

I have chosen the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 4 March 2014 as the moment to step down as Chairman of the Roche Group. I have worked in the pharmaceutical industry for 40 years, half of which have been with Roche, as head of the Pharmaceuticals Division, as CEO and as Chairman of the Board. 

At the forthcoming AGM, the Roche Board of Directors will propose that Christoph Franz, who has served as a non-executive Director on Roche’s board since 2011, be elected Chairman of the Board. With Christoph Franz, Roche will have a Chairman with outstanding personal qualities and an impressive record as head of a major global company. I am sure that his extensive experience and exceptional worldwide network will be great assets.

In March 2013, a majority of Swiss citizens voted in a referendum in favour of a set of changes to the Swiss Constitution regarding governance regulations for listed companies. Roche has decided to comply with the new regulations earlier than required and will propose changes to the company’s Articles of Incorporation at this year’s AGM. The most important ones include: from 2014, the Chairman of the Board, all members of the Board of Directors and the members of the Remuneration Committee will be elected annually by the shareholders; and furthermore, we propose to implement the binding votes on remuneration in 2014, ahead of the mandatory date of 2015.

In light of our strong performance in 2013, the Board of Directors is proposing an 6% dividend increase to 7.80 Swiss francs per share and non-voting equity security (2012: 7.35 Swiss francs), making this the 27th dividend increase in as many years. If approved, more than half of our net income will be distributed to shareholders as dividends.

I would like to thank you, Roche shareholders, for your trust in me over these past years. I have immensely enjoyed my work with the Board, the management and the employees of Roche and am very proud of what we have accomplished together. Roche is a truly great company.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Roche 2014

Dear Shareholders

After my first year as Chairman of the Board of Directors, I am very pleased to present you with solid results. In 2014, despite challenging conditions in some of our markets, particularly Europe, we delivered strong sales growth across both divisions and reported a strong net income of 9.5 billion Swiss francs.

We also had some notable successes in research and development. Thanks to some of our medicines, we helped to improve the treatment of leukemia, pulmonary diseases and skin disorders. We also introduced a test for the detection of the virus causing cervical cancer. Once again, millions of people were treated with our medicines in 2014, and thanks to our diagnostic tests, even more received a reliable diagnosis for the basis of targeted, successful treatment.

“Our main objective remains to offer patients a better quality of life and, where possible, to cure them or help them live longer.”

At last year’s Annual General Meeting, I made a commitment to continue the course Roche has set to ensure that the Group remains a driver of innovation in the healthcare sector. I am particularly impressed by the large number of projects in our pharmaceutical and diagnostic pipelines. We are tackling serious diseases with high unmet need, such as bladder cancer, a devastating disease with limited treatment options. Our main goal will always be to use cutting-edge science to offer patients a better quality of life and, where possible, to cure them or help them live longer.

In 2014, Roche invested close to 9 billion Swiss francs in research and development. We are convinced of the enormous potential of modern biosciences and will continue to rigorously pursue our efforts and investments in this area. As the world’s largest biotech company, we are in the best possible position to use our knowledge of disease biology to develop new treatments and tests that are better tailored for specific patient groups, making them safer and more effective. But, of course, it’s always better to prevent than to treat ? and as a global leader in healthcare diagnostics ?Roche is playing a crucial role here. From early screening to personalised medicines, our products can help to overcome some of the major challenges healthcare systems are facing today.

Innovation is at the heart of what we do. For us, this means being open to good ideas, including ones generated outside of Roche. In fact, about one third of our pharmaceutical products were born out of a partnership, usually with a smaller biotech firm or university. We maintain an impressive global partnership network spanning over 240 alliances, underpinned by the targeted acquisition of technologies, active ingredients and expertise. In 2014, we entered into a number of important strategic partnerships. The acquisition of the biotech company InterMune, for example, significantly strengthened our portfolio in the area of respiratory disorders with Esbriet, a treatment for a fatal lung disease.

“Sustainable success demands long-term thinking.”

Another important achievement for the Group in 2014 was certainly the selection by the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices as the world’s most sustainable company in the life sciences sector for the sixth year running. For me, it’s just another indicator that we’re on the right track. Sustainable success ? and this is not only true for Roche ? requires long-term thinking and commitment. When it comes to the implementation and development of our long-term strategy, Roche benefits from a tremendous advantage thanks to the guidance, support and trust provided by the Hoffmann and Oeri families. To me, this is one of the Group’s biggest strengths.

“Roche’s decentralised management style is a strength that we want to continue to foster.”

In 2014, I visited many of our 150 sites around the world to meet our employees and also get to know the company’s key stakeholder groups. What really stood out for me were the vast differences from one national healthcare system to the next, along with the unique challenges each system is facing. Our success hinges on giving our employees sufficient responsibility and latitude to adapt to their local situation. In this context, our decentralised management style is a core strength that we want to continue to foster.

Nonetheless, providing access to our innovative tests and medicines in economically weaker countries is a major challenge, particularly in oncology, where treatments are complex and the demands made on facilities, expertise and resources are high. We need to work with local partners, who best understand local barriers, to find ways to help patients and also improve preventive screening. 

Whilst our primary focus is always on developing innovative treatments and tests, 2014 was also a year of site expansions. This is largely to provide more space for our growing workforce, additional research infrastructure, and increased production capacities. The biggest investment we announced was in our Basel headquarters, where we aim to invest 3 billion Swiss francs over the next decade, primarily in a new, modern research centre and in a second, state-of-the-art office building. In addition, we will spend 450 million Swiss francs on increasing our production capacity in China over a three-year period in order to meet the growing demand for our diagnostic tests. We are also investing in an IT hub at another site in Switzerland, in modern research laboratories in South San Francisco, and in expanding our research and production capacities in Germany.

“In light of our good performance, we propose a 3% dividend increase to 8.00 Swiss francs per share and non-voting equity security.”

Roche is a very successful company with excellent prospects. However, I know from personal experience that it requires just as much effort to keep a company at the top as it does to get it there. Roche is unique in that it is focused on science-driven innovation, cooperative despite a decentralised structure, rooted in Switzerland, but open to the world. We are deeply committed to sustaining this distinctive culture in the future.

Whilst I look forward to addressing you in person at the 97th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Roche Holding Ltd on 3 March 2015, I would like to highlight two important items on the agenda.

“We are proposing two prominent figures, with a wealth of experience in the pharmaceutical sector, as new Board members.”

In light of our strong performance and solid outlook, the Board of Directors is proposing a 3% dividend increase to 8.00 Swiss francs per share and non-voting equity security. Subject to your approval, this will be the 28th consecutive dividend increase.

In addition to the re-election of existing members, the AGM will see some changes on the Board of Directors. Art Levinson decided to step down from the Roche Board of Directors to avoid potential conflicts of interest following his appointment as CEO of a research institution. Art has been a major contributor to Genentech’s success over the years. Under his leadership, Genentech has become one of the most important biotech companies in the world. He joined the Board of Directors of Roche in 2010, following the integration of Genentech. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank him sincerely for his invaluable contribution to the company’s overall success.

I am delighted to propose Bernard Poussot and Professor Richard Lifton as new members of the Board of Directors. These two prominent figures would bring a wealth of experience in the pharmaceutical sector and basic biomedical research respectively. Bernard comes from Wyeth where he spent 23 years leading the company in positions including President, CEO, and Chairman. Director of the Yale Center for Genome Analysis, Richard is an award-winning scientist who provided valuable insights as a member of advisory boards of various leading pharmaceutical companies. 

With its clear strategic focus on innovative medicines and diagnostics, Roche is well positioned to continue growing. The Board of Directors and Management are committed to ensuring that Roche remains one of the world’s most successful research-based healthcare companies.

I would like to take this opportunity to extend sincere thanks ? as does the entire Board of Directors ? to our 88,509 employees, as well as to the Corporate Executive Committee, for their achievements.

I also wish to thank you, valued shareholders, for your confidence in our company.














